Chapter 1 Making A Lively Start
"Have you had any trouble with Diaz, Teddy?""Who's he?""The new Spanish clown.""Oh!"Teddy Tucker's face grew serious.
　　"What about him, Phil?""That is what I am asking you. Have you had any misunderstanding-angry words or anything of the sort with him?" persisted Phil Forrest,with a keen, inquiring glance into the face of his companion.
　　"Well, maybe," admitted the Circus Boy, with evident reluctance.
　　"What made you think I had?""From the way he looked at you when you were standing in thepaddock this afternoon, waiting for your cue to go on.""Huh! How did he look at me?""As if he had a grudge against you. There was an expression in hiseyes that said more plainly than words, 'I'll get even with you yet, youngman, you see if I do not.'""Wonderful!" breathed Teddy.
　　"What do you mean?""You must be a mind reader, Phil Forrest," grumbled Teddy, digginghis heel into the soft turf of the circus lot. "Can you read my mind? Ifyou can, what am I thinking about now?""You are thinking," answered Phil slowly, "that you will make meforget the question I asked you just now. You are thinking you wouldrather not answer my question."Teddy opened his eyes a little wider.
　　"You ought to go into the business.""What business?""Reading people's minds, at so much per read.""Thank you.""I wish you'd read the mind of that donkey of mine, and find out whathe's got up his sleeve, or rather his hoofs, for me this evening.""Do you know of what else you are thinking?""Of course I do. Think I don't know what I am thinking about?
　　Well! What am I thinking about?""At the present moment you are thinking that you will do to Diaz whathe hopes to do to you some of these days--get even with him for somefancied wrong. Am I right?""I'll hand him a good stiff punch, one of these fine spring mornings,that's what I'll do," growled Tucker, his face flushing angrily.
　　"Teddy Tucker, listen to me!""I'm listening.""You will do nothing of the sort.""I won't?""No.""You just wait and see.""Since we started out on our fourth season with the SparlingCombined Shows this spring, you have behaved yourself remarkably well.
　　I know it must have pained you to do so. I give you full credit, but don'tspoil it all now, please.""Spoil it?""Yes. You must remember that this is now a Big show--larger thisseason than ever before, and you must not expect Mr. Sparling to excuseyour shortcomings as he did in the old days.""I'm not afraid of Boss Sparling.""You have no occasion to be, as long as you do your duty and attend tobusiness. We owe him a heavy debt of gratitude, both of us. You knowthat, don't you, Teddy?""I--I guess so.""What is the trouble between you and Diaz?" persisted Phil Forrest,returning to his original inquiry.
　　"Well," drawled Teddy, "you know their act?""Yes.""Throwing those peaked hats clear across the arena and catching thehats on their heads, just like a couple of monkeys.""I didn't know monkeys ever did that," smiled Phil.
　　"Well, maybe they don't. The trained seals do, anyhow."Phil nodded.
　　"They--the Spaniards--were doing that the other day when I was goingout after my clown act. I had picked up the ringmaster's whip, and as oneof the hats went sailing over my head I just took a shot at it.""Took a shot at it?""Yes. I fired at it on the wing, as it were. Don't you understand?"demanded the lad somewhat impatiently.
　　Phil shook his head.
　　"I hit it a crack with the ringmaster's whip and I hit the mark the firstshot. Down came the hat and it caught me on the nose.""Then what did you do?""Knocked it on the ground, then kicked it out of the ring," grinnedTeddy.
　　"Of course you spoiled their act," commented Phil.
　　"I--I guess I did.""That was an ungentlemanly thing to do, to say the least. It is luckyfor you that Mr. Sparling did not happen to see you. Do you know whatwould have happened to you if he had?""He would have fined me, I suppose.""No. You would have closed right there. He would have had yousent back home by the first train if he had seen you do a thing like that.""I don't care. I can get a job with the Yankee Robinson show anytime, now.""Not if you were to be discharged from this outfit for bad conduct.
　　I don't wonder Diaz is angry. Did he say anything to you at the time?"Teddy nodded.
　　"What did he say?""I didn't understand all he said. Some of it was in Spanish, but what Idid understand was enough," grinned the boy.
　　"Strong language, eh?""Phil, he can beat the boss canvasman in that line.""I am surprised, Teddy Tucker.""So was I.""I don't mean that. I am surprised that you should so far forgetyourself as to do such a thing. I don't blame Diaz for being angry, and Iwarn you that you had better look out for him. Some of thoseforeigners have very violent tempers.""Well, he didn't tell the boss, at any rate.""No. Perhaps in the long run it might have been better for you if hehad. Diaz is awaiting his opportunity to get even with you in his ownway. Look out for him, Teddy.""He had better look out for me.""Don't irritate him. Were I in your place I should go to the clown andapologize. Tell him it was a thoughtless act on your part and that you aresorry you did it--""I won't.""As you please, but that is what I would do.""You--you would do that?""I certainly would.""And let him give you the laugh?""That would make no difference to me. I should be doing what isright, and that would be satisfaction enough, no matter what he said or didafter that."Teddy reflected for a moment.
　　"Well, maybe that would be a good idea. And if he won't accept myapology, what then--shall I hand him a--""Smile and leave him. You will have done the best you could tomake amends.""All right, I'll apologize," nodded the Circus Boy. "I'll shed a tear ortwo to show him how sorry I am. Want to see me do it?""I should say not. You will do it better provided I am not looking on,but for goodness' sake don't make a mess of the whole business. It wouldbe too bad to make an enemy of one of your associates so early in theseason. Think how uncomfortable it would be for you all through thesummer. He has not been with us long enough to become used to yourpractical jokes. Perhaps after he gets better acquainted with you, he maynot mind your peculiar ways so much," added Phil, with a short laugh.
　　"Now run along and be good."Teddy turned away and slipped through the paddock opening, in frontof which the lads had been standing just outside the tent, leaving Phillooking after him with a half smile on his face.
　　The Circus Boys were again on the road with the Great SparlingCombined Shows. This was their fourth season out, and the readers willremember them as the same lads who in "THE CIRCUS BOYS ON THEFLYING RINGS," had made their humble start in the circus world.
　　During that first season both lads had distinguished themselves--Phil forhis bravery and cool headedness, Teddy for getting himself into troubleunder all circumstances and conditions. They had quickly risen, however,to the grade of real circus performers, the owner of the show recognizingin each, the making of a fine performer.
　　In "THE CIRCUS BOYS ACROSS THE CONTINENT," it will berecalled how Phil and his companion won new laurels in the sawdust arena,and how the former ran down and captured a bad man who had been athorn in the side of the circus itself for many weeks through his efforts toavenge a fancied wrong. By this time the boys had become full-fledgedcircus performers, each playing an important part in the performance.
　　It will be recalled, too, how Phil and Teddy in "THE CIRCUS BOYSIN DIXIE LAND," advanced rapidly in their calling; how Phil wascaptured by a rival show, held prisoner on the owner's private car, and laterwas obliged to become a performer in the ring of the rival show. Hisescape, his long tramp to rejoin his own show, followed by the battle ofthe elephants--will be well remembered by all the readers of the previousvolumes in this series.
　　During the winter just passed, the lads had been attending the highschool at Edmeston, where they made their home, working hard afterschool hours to keep themselves in good physical condition for the nextseason's work.
　　Spring came. The lads passed their final examinations, and, withtheir diplomas in their pockets, set out one bright May morning to join theshow which, by this time, had come to be looked upon by them as a realhome.
　　They had been on the road less than two weeks now, and were lookingforward with keen anticipation to their summer under the billowing canvasof the Great Sparling Shows.
　　"I think I _will_ take a peep to see how Teddy is getting along with hisapology," decided Phil, turning and entering the paddock. Then hestepped quietly into the dressing tent.
　　He saw Teddy approach the clown, Diaz, who sat on his trunk makingup his face before a hand mirror.
　　Teddy halted a few feet from the clown, waiting until the latter shouldhave observed him. The clown glanced up, glowered, and slowly placedthe mirror on the trunk beside him. He seemed astonished that the boyshould have the courage to face him.
　　Then Teddy, solemn-faced, made his apology. To Phil Forrest'slistening ears it was the most amazing apology he ever had listened to.
　　"I'm sorry I made a monkey of you," said Teddy.
　　"What!" fairly exploded the clown.
　　"I'm sorry I made a monkey of you," repeated the Circus Boy in aslightly louder tone. "Maybe I wouldn't have done so if I had had time tothink about it.""You make apology to me--to me?" questioned Diaz, tapping his ownchest significantly.
　　"Yes; to whom did you think I was making an apology--to the hyenaout under the menagerie top, eh?""Bah!""I am sorry I made a fool of you, Mr. Diaz.""Me--fool?""Yes, I guess you are about right. You certainly look the part, and--"Diaz sprang up with a growl of rage, Tucker giving ground a little ashe observed the anger in the painted face before him. Before the ladcould raise his hands to protect himself Diaz had grasped Teddy andhurled him across the dressing tent, where he landed in a pail of water.
　　He was up in a twinkling. His face was flushed and his hands wereclenched.
　　No sooner had he gotten to his feet than he observed that the clownhad started for him again. Teddy squared off, prepared for fight. At thatmoment, however, there came an interruption that turned the attention ofthe enraged clown in another direction.
　　Phil Forrest quickly stepped between them facing Diaz.
　　"What are you going to do?" demanded the Circus Boy in a quietvoice.
　　"Do?""Yes.""I punish the monkey-face--""You will, eh?" howled Teddy, starting forward.
　　Phil thrust his companion aside.
　　"Go away. I will see if I can explain to him," cautioned Phil, turningto the clown again, just as the latter was making a rush at Teddy.
　　"One moment, Mr. Diaz. My friend Teddy is not very diplomatic, buthe means well. He apologized to you for what he had done, did he not?""Yes," growled the clown. "Then why not call it square and--""I punish him. I fix him!" roared Diaz, making a leap for Teddy, whohad managed to edge up nearer to them.
　　"You will do nothing of the sort," answered Phil Forrest firmly, againstepping between them.
　　An angry light glowed in the eyes of the clown. For an instant heglared into Phil's steady gray eyes, then all of a sudden launched a viciousblow at the boy.
　　The blow failed to reach the mark. Phil dodged and stepped back acouple of feet.
　　Another, as swift as the first was sent straight for his head. This blowthe Circus Boy skillfully parried, but made no effort to return.
　　"Mr. Diaz! Mr. Diaz!" warned Phil. "You forget yourself. Pleasedon't do anything you will be sorry for afterwards.""I fix you!" snarled the clown.
　　"I don't want to hit you, sir, but you may force me to do so."Phil had no time to warn the fellow further, for the clown began to rainblows upon him, though with no great exhibition of boxing skill. Philcould have landed effectively anywhere on the clown's body had hechosen to do so.
　　Instead, the boy slowly gave ground, defending himself cleverly. Notone single blow from the powerful fist of Diaz reached him, Philexhibiting the wonderful self-control that was characteristic of him. Heeven found opportunity to warn Teddy to get out of the tent until thetempest had blown over.
　　Teddy, however, stood with hands thrust in his trousers pockets,shoulders hunched forward, glaring at Diaz.
　　"Don't you get in this now," breathed Phil. "Keep away! Keepaway! I'll--"At that moment Phil stumbled over a trunk, landing on his head andshoulders. Quick as he was he found himself unable to turn over and rollaway soon enough to get beyond reach of the angry clown.
　　Diaz hurled himself upon the slender, though athletic figure of theCircus Boy, almost knocking the breath out of Phil.
　　No sooner had he done so than something else happened. A bodylaunched itself through the air. The body belonged to Tucker. Teddylanded with great force on the head and shoulders of the enraged clown,flattening the latter down upon Phil with crushing weight, and nearlyknocking Forrest senseless.
Chapter 2 January Lends A Foot
"Stop it!" roared a voice. "We don't allow 'roughhouse' in thedressing tent.""Yes," added another; "go out on the lot if you want to settle yourdifferences."Mr. Miaco, the head clown, who had been a true friend to the boysfrom the beginning of their circus career, had discovered what was goingon about the time Teddy decided to mix in in the disagreement. Mr.
　　Miaco sprang up and ran to the struggling heap. Grasping Teddy firmlyby the shoulder he tossed the lad aside.
　　"Now, you stay out of this, unless you want a thrashing from me," thehead clown warned.
　　The next to feel the grip of his powerful hand was the clown, Diaz,and when Mr. Miaco discovered that the clown had Phil Forrest down, hecould scarcely restrain himself from severely punishing the fellow.
　　However, Miaco satisfied himself with hauling Diaz from his victim withlittle ceremony. Then he jerked the angry clown to his feet.
　　"Well, sir, what have you to say for yourself?" demanded Miaco,gazing at the other sternly.
　　"This no business of yours," growled Diaz.
　　"That remains to be seen. I'll decide whether it is any of my affair ornot. Phil, what does this mean?""Just a little matter between ourselves. Thank you for helping meout.""Did he attack you, Phil?""He did, but he no doubt thought he had sufficient provocation.
　　Perhaps we should not be too hard on Mr. Diaz.""Then the best thing to do is to tell Mr. Sparling. I--""Please don't do anything of the sort," begged Phil. "In the first place,Diaz's anger was directed against Teddy, and I had to mix myself in theirquarrel. Teddy did something to him a few weeks ago that made theclown very angry, and I don't blame Diaz.""Was there any excuse for his pitching into you in this manner?""Well," laughed Phil, "perhaps the situation did not demand exactlythat sort of treatment.""How did you come to let him get you so easily?""I fell over something.""Oh, that's it?""Yes. I wasn't trying to hit him. I could have done so easily, but Ifelt that I was in the wrong.""Humph!" grunted the head clown. Then he turned to Diaz.
　　"See here, you fellow!""What you want?" demanded Diaz in a surly tone.
　　"I want to advise you to let those boys alone in the future. They havebeen with this show a long time, and they are highly thought of by Mr.
　　Sparling. Were he to hear what you have done tonight I rather think youwould pack your trunk and quit right here. I shall not tell him. Nexttime I see you doing any such thing you will have to answer to me. I'mthe head clown here, and I won't stand for one of my men pitching on aboy."Teddy was chuckling to himself over the severe rebuke that Miaco wasadministering to his clown.
　　"Do you boys intend going on tonight?" Miaco demanded suddenly,turning on Teddy.
　　"Certainly," answered Phil.
　　"Then I should advise you to be getting into your makeups.""Why, what time is it?""A quarter to eight.""Whew! Come on, Teddy."A few moments more and peace had been restored in the dressing tent,though Diaz was muttering to himself as he laid the powder over his face,preparatory to his first entry into the ring.
　　"I am afraid we have not heard the last of Diaz, Teddy," confided Philto his companion. "You see what your moment of thoughtlessness hasbrought upon us, don't you?""You didn't have to mix in the row. I could have handled him.""I am forced to admit that you are right. I sought to avoid trouble andI was the direct cause of a lot of it. There goes the first call. Hurry up!"The Circus Boys had, indeed, made an enemy. It was noticed,however, that Manuel, the assistant of Diaz, had taken no part in the row.
　　The young man had calmly proceeded with his making up withoutappearing to take the slightest interest in the affair. Whether or not hisapparent indifference was merely assumed was not known.
　　The two boys were not performing on the flying rings this season.
　　They had retained all their other acts, however, though the star act was theflying trapeze, in which Phil Forrest was now one of the leadingperformers.
　　Teddy rode his donkey, January, took part in the ground tumbling,acted as shadow again for the clown Shivers, besides making himselfgenerally useful in some of the other acts.
　　As for Phil's bareback riding, he occupied the center ring in this act, ashe had done the season before. He had come to be perhaps the mostuseful man with the Sparling show.
　　"I advise you to look out for that fellow. He is a dangerouscustomer," warned Miaco under his breath, as Phil sat down on his horseduring a rest in the performance.
　　The Circus Boy nodded his understanding, but appeared littledisturbed at Miaco's warning. Like the seasoned circus man that he was,he had learned to take things as they came, making the best of everysituation when he came face to face with it.
　　Diaz and his assistant were entering the ring as Phil left it. Theybegan throwing their hats, winning great applause, for their act was aclever one of its kind. At about the same time, Teddy Tucker and Januarycame on, the Circus Boy howling, January braying and bucking, beatingthe air with his heels, for he had been taught some entirely new tricksduring the winter.
　　The ringmaster held up his hand for silence.
　　"Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce to you, January. AsJanuary is the first month of the year, so is this January first in the donkeyworld. You will observe how docile and kind he appears. Yet, ladiesand gentlemen, the management of this show will give a hundred dollarsto any person who can stick on his back for a full minute--only sixtyseconds, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know of any easier or fasterway to make money? Six thousand dollars an hour if you stay that long.
　　Who will be the first to earn the money?"It was the first time the announcement had been made from the ring.
　　Mr. Sparling had given his consent, even though he had not seen the act.
　　He had, however, observed Teddy engaged in a tussle with the beast thatafternoon, and could readily understand that what Teddy told him aboutJanuary's contrariness was not overdrawn.
　　A colored man came down from the audience, and, throwing off hiscoat, announced his intention of riding the mule.
　　January appeared to have no objection, permitting the colored man toget on his back without offering the least opposition. To Teddy, whostood in front of the animal, grinning, there was a glint in the eye of themule that spelled trouble for the colored man.
　　Suddenly January reared, then as quickly tipped the other way until itappeared to the spectators as if he were standing on his head.
　　The rider suddenly landed on his back in the sawdust.
　　"The gentleman loses," announced the ringmaster. "Is there any othergentleman in the audience who thinks he can earn one hundred dollars aminute--six thousand dollars an hour?"No one appeared to be anxious to make the attempt.
　　Manuel, in the meantime, had drawn closer, paying strict attention tothe words of the ringmaster.
　　"You give money for riding the burro?" questioned the little Spaniard.
　　"Burro? This is no Mexican burro, this is a donkey!" sniffed Teddycontemptuously.
　　The ringmaster instantly scented an opportunity to have some fun, andat the same time make the audience laugh. He glanced about to see if Mr.
　　Sparling were under the big top, and not seeing him, instantly decided totake a long chance.
　　"Do you think you can ride January, sir?""I ride burro.""Very well, it is your privilege to do so if you can. Ladies andgentlemen, this clown has never before attempted this feat. He thinkshe can ride the donkey. If he succeeds he will receive the reward offeredby the management of the show, just the same as you would have donehad you performed the feat."Teddy stroked January's nose, then leaning over, the Circus Boywhispered in the animal's ear.
　　"January," he said, "you've got a solemn duty to perform. If youshirk it you are no longer a friend of mine, and you get no more candy-understand?
　　No more candy."January curled his upper lip ever so little and brayed dismally.
　　"That's right; I knew you would agree to the sentiment.""Get away from his head, Master Teddy. The Spanish clown is aboutto distinguish himself," announced the ringmaster.
　　Manuel was an agile little fellow. While the announcement wasbeing made he had been taking mental measurement of the beast anddeciding upon his course of action.
　　Ere Teddy had stepped back the Spaniard took a running start, and,with a leap, landed fairly on the back of the donkey.
　　The latter, taken by surprise, cleared the ground with all four feet andbucked, but the rider had flung his arms about the donkey's neck, clingingwith both feet to the beast's body, grimly determined to win that hundreddollars or die in the attempt.
　　"Go it, January," encouraged Teddy. "Give it to him! Soak himhard!"January stood on his hind feet, then on his head, as it were, but still theSpaniard clung doggedly.
　　By this time the donkey had begun to get angry. He had been takenan unfair advantage of and he did not like it. Suddenly he launched intoa perfect volley of kicks, each kick giving the rider such a violent jolt thathe was rapidly losing his hold.
　　"Keep it up! Keep it up! You've got him!" exulted the Circus Boy.
　　The audience was howling with delight.
　　"There he goes!" shrieked Teddy.
　　Manuel, now as helpless as a ship without a rudder, was being buffetedover the back of the plunging animal.
　　Manuel was yelling in his native language, but if anyone understoodwhat he was saying, that one gave no heed. Teddy, on the other hand,was urging January with taunt and prod of the ringmaster's whip.
　　Suddenly the Spanish clown was bounced over the donkey's rump,landing on the animal's hocks. It was January's moment--the moment hehad been cunningly waiting and planning for. The donkey's hoofs shotup into the air with the clown on them. The hoofs were quickly drawnback, but the Spanish clown continued right on, sailing through the air likea great gaudy projectile.
　　The audience yelled its approval.
　　Manuel landed with a crash in the midst of the lower grandstand seats.
　　A second later there was a mix-up that required the united services of adozen ring attendants to straighten out.
　　In the meantime, Teddy Tucker was rolling on the ground near thecenter pole, howling with delight, while January, with lowered head, wastrotting innocently toward the paddock.
　　The ringmaster's whistle trilled for the next act, and the show went onwith its characteristic dash and sprightliness.
　　However, Teddy Tucker's plan to get one of the Spanish hat-throwing clowns into trouble had been an entire success. He hadsucceeded, also, in making another bitter enemy for the Circus Boys.
Chapter 3 A Day Of Memories
Mr. Sparling, the owner of the show, had been a witness of the latterpart of Teddy's act. The showman was standing over near the entrance tothe menagerie tent when Manuel took his unexpected flight, and theproprietor sat down on the grass, laughing until the tears started from hiseyes.
　　The act had been a breach of discipline, so Mr. Sparling prudently kepthimself out of sight until the show had progressed further.
　　Later in the evening he chanced to pass Teddy out in the paddock.
　　"Well, my lad, how is January working tonight?" he asked, with atwinkle in his eyes.
　　"Never better, sir, thank you.""I presume he obeys your commands perfectly, eh?""Does everything I tell him to, Mr. Sparling. I can do anything withthat donkey. Why, I could wink at him and make him kick your head off.
　　I--""I'll take your word for it, young man--I'll take your word for it. Letme warn you to be careful that you do not tell him to do anything that willinterfere with the programme. We must have our acts clean cut, andembodying nothing that has not been arranged for in advance. Do youunderstand?""Yes, sir," answered Teddy, giving the owner a keen, inquiring glance.
　　"I'll bet he saw that," mused the lad. "He's letting me off easybecause he had to laugh, just the same as the rest of the people did.""What did Mr. Sparling have to say?" questioned Phil, who hademerged from the dressing tent just as Teddy was walking away from theshowman.
　　Teddy told him.
　　"You got off pretty easy, I must say. It is a wonder he did notdiscipline you for that.""Do you think he saw Manuel fly?""He did, or else someone told him. Be careful, Teddy! You arelaying up trouble for all of us," warned Phil.
　　"I got even with Mr. Hat Thrower, just the same," grinned Tucker.
　　Teddy was the happiest boy in the show that night, and he went to hissleeping quarters chuckling all the way.
　　The show, this season, had opened in Chicago, and was now workingits way across the state of Illinois. The route had caused considerablecomment among the show people. They did not understand what theplans of the owner might be.
　　Ordinarily, give a showman the first week or two of the show's routeand he will tell you just what parts of the country the show will visitduring that particular season. The performers were unable to do so inthis instance. Phil Forrest was as much perplexed as the others, but hemade no mention of this to Mr. Sparling.
　　"He has some surprise up his sleeve, I am sure," decided Philshrewdly.
　　The next morning Phil asked Mr. Miaco, the head clown, if he knewwhere they were going.
　　"I do not," answered the clown. "This route has kept me guessing.
　　Boss Sparling may be headed for Australia for all I know. He's just aslikely to go there as anywhere else. Has the Spaniard bothered yousince that mix-up?""No.""Well, keep away from him. That is my advice.""I shall not bother him. You may depend upon that, Mr. Miaco.
　　can't say as much for Teddy.""Teddy put up that job with January last night, didn't he?""He hasn't said so.""Not necessary. I saw the whole thing. Lucky for Teddy that Mr.
　　Sparling did not happen to be about.""I am not so sure that he was not.""What?"Phil explained what Mr. Sparling had said to Teddy out in thepaddock.
　　"Yes, he saw it all right, but I guess he doesn't know about the troublein the dressing tent yesterday.""No, I think not. I hope he does not hear of it, either. I do not wishMr. Sparling to think that I am a troublemaker, or that I was mixed up inan unseemly row in the dressing tent. I should feel very much humiliatedwere I to be called to account for a thing like that. What are all thoseflags flying for in town today?""Don't you know?""No, I don't.""You don't know what day this is?""No, sir.""This is Decoration Day.""Oh, that's so.""We lose all track of days in the show business. I'll wager you do noteven know what town we are performing in today," laughed the clown.
　　"I shall have to confess that I do not.""I thought so. Of course you know we are in the state of Illinois?""Yes, I think I have heard something to that effect," grinned Phil.
　　By the time the boys had eaten their breakfast, and had strolled overtoward the tents, they found the dressing tents in place and the performersbusily engaged in unpacking their belongings, hanging their costumes onlines stretched across the dressing tent, and making such repairs in thecostumes as were found to be necessary, for a showman must be handywith the needle as well as with bar and trapeze.
　　Phil's trunk was next to that of Diaz. The Circus Boy did not mindthis at all, but the clown appeared to feel a continual resentment at the fact.
　　"Good morning, Mr. Diaz," greeted the lad, with a sunny smile.
　　"Shall we shake hands and be friends?"Diaz glared at him, but made no reply. He did not even appear tohave observed the hand that was extended toward him.
　　"I am sorry you feel that way about it, sir. If I was hasty I beg youwill forgive me," urged Phil.
　　Diaz turned his back on him.
　　"Very well, sir," said the Circus Boy, a little proudly and with slightlyheightened color, "I shall not trouble you again."Phil turned away and began unpacking his trunk, giving no furtherheed to the sullen clown.
　　"The Honorable Mr. Diaz says 'nix,'" laughed Teddy, who had been anamused witness to the one-sided conversation, the word "nix" being thecircus man's comprehensive way of saying, "I refuse.""Don't stir him up, Teddy," warned Phil.
　　"Say, what's going on over in the women's dressing tent?""I did not know that anything out of the ordinary was happeningthere," said Phil. "Why?""I see a lot of folks going in and out.""Nothing unusual about that, I guess.""Yes, there is.""What makes you think so?"" 'Cause they're carrying flowers in and making a great fuss. I'mgoing over to find out. Come along?""No, thank you. You had better keep out. You know you are notsupposed to go in the other dressing tent."Teddy was not disturbed by the warning. He turned and started forthe women's dressing tent, where he saw several of the other performerspassing through the entrance. Phil, who had stepped to the door of hisown dressing tent, observed the same thing.
　　"I guess there must be something going on over there. I shall have tofind out what it means," he thought.
　　"May I come in, Mrs. Waite?" called Phil from the entrance.
　　"Sure. Come in Phil," smiled the wardrobe woman.
　　Teddy had not wasted the breath to ask permission to enter, but themoment he stepped inside something caught his eyes, causing them toopen a little wider.
　　Two trunks had been drawn up in the center; over them was thrown anAmerican flag. At one end a flag on a standard had been planted, and onthe trunks, flowers and wreaths had been placed.
　　"What's that thing?" asked Teddy.
　　"That is my grave, Master Teddy," answered Mrs. Waite in a low tone.
　　"Your grave?""Yes.""Pshaw! That's a funny kind of grave. What's buried there--yourpet poodle?""Teddy! Teddy!" whispered Phil reprovingly.
　　"Go 'way. This is some kind of a joke," growled Teddy.
　　"It is not a joke, though I do not understand the meaning of it just yet.
　　You say this is your grave, Mrs. Waite?" asked Phil.
　　"Yes, Phil. You know my husband was a soldier?""No, I did not know that, Mrs. Waite. Will you tell me all about it?"Phil was deeply interested now.
　　"My husband was killed at the battle of Gettysburg. He lies inWoodlawn Cemetery. I am never at home on Decoration Day. I amalways on the road with the circus, so I cannot decorate the real grave.""I understand," breathed the Circus Boy.
　　"Being unable to decorate my husband's real grave, I carry my gravewith me. Each Memorial Day morning I prepare my grave here in thedressing tent, and decorate it as you see here, and all my friends of thecircus are very good and thoughtful on that occasion.""How long have you been with the show--how many years have youbeen decorating this little property grave, Mrs. Waite?" asked Phil.
　　"Thirty years, Phil.""Is it possible?""Yes, and it seems no more than two.""Do you intend remaining with the show much longer--aren't you evergoing to retire?""Yes. I am going to retire. I am getting old. I have laid up enoughmoney to keep me for the rest of my life, and I am going to take a restafter two years more with this outfit.""I am afraid you will miss the show," smiled the lad.
　　"I know I shall. I shall miss the life, the color, and I shall miss myboys and my girls. I love them all very much."One after another, the women of the circus had come in to the dressingtent, depositing their little floral remembrances on the property gravewhile Mrs. Waite was talking.
　　Teddy, as soon as he fully comprehended the meaning of the scene,had slipped out. In a little while he returned. He brought with him abunch of daisies that he had gathered on the circus lot. These he had tiedwith a soiled pink ribbon that he had ripped from one of his ring costumes.
　　Phil saw the daisies, and, noting their significance, smiledapprovingly.
　　"Teddy has a heart, after all," was his mental comment.
　　Teddy Tucker proceeded to the flag-draped grave, gently placed hisoffering upon it, then turned away.
　　As he did so, he was observed to brush a hand across his eyes as ifsomething there were blurring his sight.
Chapter 4 Their Curiosity Aroused
"Phil, I have an idea that you are wondering where we are bound for?"said Mr. Sparling, with a merry twinkle in his eyes.
　　"I will confess that I have been somewhat curious," smiled the boy.
　　"From the route I could not imagine where you were heading.""You are not the only one who has been guessing. Our rivals arepositively nervous over the movements of this show. They think we aregoing to jump into the Mississippi River, or something of the sort--""Or float on it," added Phil.
　　Mr. Sparling eyed him keenly.
　　They were in the owner's private tent, discussing the business of theshow itself, as these two did every day of the season, for Mr. Sparling hadcome to place no little reliance on the judgment of his young Circus Boy.
　　"What made you say that, Phil?""I had no particular reason. Perhaps I thought I was sayingsomething funny.""Nothing very funny about that," answered the showman.
　　"I agree with you.""I thought perhaps you might ask me where we were routed for thisseason.""And I thought you would tell me when you wished me to know,"answered the boy.
　　"It was not because I did not wish you to know our route, Phil.
　　rather thought I should like to give you a surprise.""Yes, sir.""We are going to surprise the show world at the same time, so you seeyou are not the only one who will be surprised.""You arouse my curiosity, Mr. Sparling.""Still you refuse to ask where we are going," replied the showman,laughing heartily. "I have made my arrangements with the utmostsecrecy because I did not wish any of the opposition shows to get a line onmy plans. Not one of them has done so thus far. Tomorrow they willknow. Or at least by the day after tomorrow. I am not going to let youin on my little secret today either. Do you think you can possess yoursoul in patience until then?""I think there will be no trouble about that. If I have restrained mycuriosity so far I surely can control it until tomorrow. We show atMilledgeville tomorrow, do we not?""That's what the route card says and I guess the route card is right.""Small town, is it not?""Yes, one of the little river towns. Do you know much about theriver?""Nothing except what I observed when we played the southern stateslast season. I should like to take a trip down the river, and hope I mayhave an opportunity to do so one of these days.""You'll have the opportunity, all right.""Sir?""I said you would have the opportunity.""I hope so.""Perhaps sooner than you think, too. How is your friend, Tucker,getting along?""Pretty well, thank you. I guess he is working better this season thanhe did last. His acts are much more finished, don't you think so?""Yes. I noticed that he nearly finished a clown with one of his actsthe other night," answered Mr. Sparling dryly, whereat both laughedheartily. "Have you had any trouble, with any of the men?""Do you mean myself, personally?""Either or both of you?""Some slight disagreements. What trouble we have had has been duewholly to our own fault," answered Phil manfully.
　　"With whom?""I would rather not say anything about it, if you will permit me toremain silent.""You are a queer boy, Phil.""So I have been told before," answered the lad, laughing.
　　"And your friend Teddy is a confounded sight more so. I'm afraid hewould have a hard time with most any other show in spite of the fact thathe is an excellent performer.""I have told him as much.""Oh, you have?""Yes, sir.""What does he say?""He doesn't take my advice very seriously, I am afraid. Teddy is allright at heart, however.""I agree with you."Phil then related to Mr. Sparling the incident of the dressing tent, whenTeddy gathered the daisies to place on the "grave" in memory of Mrs.
　　Waite's soldier dead, to all of which the showman listened with thoughtfulface. Mr. Sparling rose, walked to the door of the tent, then returned andsat down.
　　"You never knew that I was a soldier, too, did you, Phil?""No, sir. Were you really?""Yes. I fought with the South. I was a drummer boy in a Georgiaregiment," said the showman reminiscently. "Perhaps had I been older Imight have done differently, but I loved my Sunny South and I love itnow.""So do I," added Phil Forrest fervently.
　　"But the war is over. It is the show business that concerns us mostintimately at the present moment. I want to say that you are doingexcellent work on the flying trapeze this season.""Thank you. I am doing my best.""You always do. Whatever you attempt you go at with all the forceyou possess, and that is no slight factor, either. I have been waiting totalk seriously with you for sometime. You have finished your studies,have you not?""Yes.""What are your plans for the future?""I have no immediate plans beyond continuing in the show business.
　　I am trying to lay up some money so I can go into business some ofthese days.""What business?""Circus business, of course. It is the only business I know anythingabout, and I know very little about that, it seems to me.""Let me tell you something, Phil. Nine-tenths of the men who havebeen in it nearly all their lives know no more about the circus businessthan you do. Many of them not so much. You are a born showman.
　　Take my word for it, you have a very brilliant career before you. Youspoke, sometime ago, about wishing to go to college.""I should like to go.""Under the circumstances I would advise against it, though I am athorough believer in the value of an education. You have a good startnow. Were you to go to college you would spend four years there andwhen you finished, you would find that the show world had been movingright along just the same. You would be out of it, so to speak. Youwould have been standing still so far as the circus was concerned, for fourfull years. Think it over and some of these days we will have anothertalk.""What would you advise, Mr. Sparling?""I don't advise. I am simply pointing out the facts for you to consider,that's all.""I thank you, Mr. Sparling. I already owe you a debt of gratitude.
　　I shall never forget all you have done for Teddy and myself, and I am sureTeddy also appreciates it.""You owe me nothing.""Oh, yes, I do! I shall never be able wholly to pay the debt, either.""We will drop that side of the case, my boy. You will want to pack allyour things for moving tonight.""You mean my dressing-room trunk?""I mean all your belongings."Phil looked his surprise.
　　"I have special reference to your stuff in the sleeper.""May I ask why, Mr. Sparling.""Because tonight will be the last night you will spend on the sleepingcar for sometime, in all probability.""I don't understand. Am I to leave the show?""Leave the show?""Yes, sir.""I should say not. You leave the show? I would rather lose any tenmen in it than to have you go away. I trust you never will leave it for anylength of time--at least not while I am in the business. No, you aregoing on a little trip--the show is going on a little trip. That is thesurprise I have in store for you. You will know tomorrow morning.
　　Not another word now, Phil Forrest. Run along and get ready for theperformance."The Circus Boy hurried over to the dressing tent, full of curiosity andanticipation of what awaited him on the morrow. Strange to say, Phil hadnot the least idea what the plan of the owner of the show might be.
　　The surprise was to be a complete one.
Chapter 5 The Circus Boys' Surprise
"Come, Phil and Teddy. I want you to take a little walk with me,"called Mr. Sparling early next morning after they had finished theirbreakfast.
　　That morning orders had been given in each of the sleeping cars, forthe performers to pack their belongings, ready to be moved from the cars.
　　The show people could not understand it, and gossip was rife amongthem as to the meaning of the unusual order.
　　Orders also had been given to the various heads of departments toprepare to desert the train, bag and baggage.
　　"Where are we going?" demanded Teddy suspiciously.
　　"For a walk. You need not go along, unless you wish to," added theshowman.
　　"Of course I wish to go. Do you think I want to stay on the lot whenanything is going on somewhere else, eh?""There would be plenty going on, if you remained. I am sure ofthat," replied Mr. Sparling, with a short laugh. "Come along, boys."Still wondering what it was all about, Phil and Teddy walked alongwith their employer. They passed on through the business street of thetown, then turned off sharply, heading for the north. A few moments ofthis and they turned to the left again.
　　"Hello, there's the river," announced Teddy.
　　"Yes, that is the river.""I wish I could take a boat ride.""You shall have one tonight.""Good!"Phil glanced at Mr. Sparling inquiringly.
　　"Oh, look at that funny boat!" cried Teddy. "It's yellow. I've heardof a yellow dog, but I can't say that I ever heard of a yellow boat. And ithas a paddle wheel on behind. Well, if that isn't the limit! Why, thereare three of them. What are they, Mr. Sparling?"Phil's eyes already were widening. He had caught sight of somethingthat shed a flood of light on the mystery--the surprise that Mr. Sparlinghad in store for them. But he was not positive enough to commit himself.
　　A moment more, and he knew he was not wrong.
　　"Teddy, if you will read the words on the side of that boat nearest to us,you will understand, I think.""T-h-e," spelled Teddy.
　　"The," finished Phil.
　　"S-p-a-r-l-i-n-g, Sparling. C-o-m-b-i-n-e-d Shows. Well, what doyou think of _that?_""I hardly know what to think, yet," answered Phil Forrest. "TheSparling Combined Shows. Do you mean to say--?""I haven't said a word," answered Mr. Sparling, with a merry twinklein his eyes. "I am waiting for you to say something.""I--I am afraid I am too much astonished to say much. Do you meanwe are going to take to the river?""Exactly.""With the show?""Yes.""Hooray!""What's that?" demanded Teddy.
　　"Didn't you hear?""I heard, but I don't understand. What's it all about? What is itabout those yellow boats over there?""The Sparling Circus is going down the Mississippi," Mr. Sparlinginformed him.
　　"On those things?""On those boats.""Then I think I'll walk. You don't catch me riding on any boat thathas to have a wheel on behind to help push it along. No, siree, not formine!""But, Teddy, they are fine boats," said Phil.
　　"They are among the few typical Mississippi River steamers," broke inMr. Sparling. "I got them far up the river last winter. When I firstconceived the plan of sending my show down the river, on the river itself,I took a trip out here to look over the ground--""You mean the water," corrected Teddy innocently.
　　"A little of both, my boy. I found that no show since the early days ofthe barnstorming outfits had ever attempted the feat. I learned a numberof things that made me all the more anxious to try it. The next questionwas a boat. I heard of some of the old broad-beamed river craft thatwere out of commission up stream. I found them exactly suited to ourrequirements, and I rented them for the season. It cost quite a sum tohave them fixed up, but you will find them just the thing for our work.
　　What do you think of the idea?""Great!" breathed Phil. "It fairly takes my breath away.""When--when do we move in?" asked Teddy Tucker wonderingly.
　　"We begin moving in this morning. I have given the orders to havethe property removed from the trains and brought here, now--that is, allthat will not be needed for today's performances. Tonight all hands willsleep on the boats. How will you like that, boys?""Fine!" answered Phil, with glowing eyes.
　　"I'll tell you after I try it," added Teddy prudently.
　　Across the sides of each boat, in big black letters, were the words,"The Sparling Combined Shows." Below this lettering appeared thenames of the boats. The "River Queen" was the name emblazoned onone, several shades more yellow than the other two.
　　"I guess we shall have to call her the 'Yellow Peril,'" laughed Phil.
　　"Don't you think that would be an appropriate name?"Mr. Sparling laughed good-naturedly.
　　The companion boat to the "Queen" was named the "Mary Jane."Teddy promptly renamed her the "Fat Marie," in honor of The FattestWoman on Earth, much to the amusement of Phil and Mr. Sparling.
　　The "Nemah" was the third boat of the fleet, a much smaller craft thaneither of the others. The owner intended to use the "Nemah" as theFlying Squadron of the show, the boat that went ahead of the main body ofthe show, bearing the cook tent, kitchen equipment and as much otherproperty as could be loaded on it.
　　"Well, Teddy," said Mr. Sparling, "in view of the fact that you and Philhave renamed the 'River Queen' and the 'Mary Jane,' I suppose you willnot be satisfied until you have rechristened the 'Nemah.' What will youcall her?""'Little Nemo,'" answered the lad promptly.
　　"You boys beat anything I ever came across in all my circusexperience," remarked Mr. Sparling.
　　"Where do we sleep?" asked Phil.
　　"The cabins are all on the upper decks. The lower decks will be usedwholly for the equipment. I have had all the partitions ripped out, downthere, and the deck flooring lowered a little so that the elephants willhave room to stand. I have also had smaller wheels put on all the wagons.
　　Had I not done so the wagons would not have gone in through theopenings on the sides.""What about the tent poles?" asked Phil. "You never will be able todrive a pole wagon on board.""You have an eye to business, I see. Have you noticed that the centerpoles are spliced this season?""Yes, I did observe that.""It was for the purpose of easier handling. The poles will all beswung to the upper decks in bundles. In the morning they will belowered to the wagons, which can be done without much difficulty. Allthe poles, except those belonging to the big top, will go out on the 'LittleNemo,' as you have named her. At first, handling the show will be a littleawkward, but we shall soon get the hang of it and fit into the newarrangement just as if we had been always traveling on boats. Travelingon the water, you see, we shall be able to show on both sides of the riverall the way down, which we could not do were we traveling by train.
　　That will give us a long season, short runs overnight and a fine outing.
　　Everybody will be delighted with the change, don't you think so?""If not, they will be pretty hard to please, I should say," rejoined Phil.
　　"Why, it will be a regular vacation--all summer!""How far do we go?" asked Teddy.
　　"The length of the river.""To the Gulf of Mexico?""Yes. New Orleans probably will be our last stand of the season.
　　That is, if we do not get wrecked on the big river.""We can swim out if we do," suggested Teddy.
　　"I hope nothing of the sort will occur. I think our new plans willmake a great hit along the river.""They cannot help but do so. We shall have a fine business, Iknow," smiled Phil," and our rivals will be green with envy.""May we go on board?""I hardly think you will have time this morning, Teddy. You boys hadbetter get back to the lot now. I will let you run the show, Phil, as I shallbe busy most of the day arranging for the transfer to our new quarters. Ichose Saturday for the purpose, as it will give us plenty of time. Weprobably shall not get away from here much before daylight.""What boat do we berth on?""The 'Fat Marie,'" answered the showman, with a laugh. "I believeI'll have these new names of yours painted on the boats. They certainlymake a hit with me. Skip along, now!"Almost too full of the new plans to talk, the Circus Boys hurried backto the circus lot. Mr. Sparling's surprise had been a surprise, indeed.
　　By the time they reached the lot the news had been circulated that theshow was to take to the river, and the show people were discussingexcitedly the new plan.
　　All was bustle and excitement, and the occupants of the dressing tent,who were preparing for the parade, crowded about the boys to hear of thenew boats.
　　The Sparling show had never gone along with the snap and enthusiasmthat it did that afternoon. The performers were on their mettle and thelittle town was treated to a performance such as it had never seen before.
　　Teddy distinguished himself by landing on his head on thesomersaulting mat, narrowly escaping breaking his neck, and Phil took anunexpected header into the big net during his trapeze act, getting a jolt thatmade his head ache for an hour afterwards. Nothing else of an excitingnature occurred during the afternoon performance, but at the evening showthe circus people were not so fortunate.
　　At that performance they met with excitement enough to last them fora long time.
Chapter 4 A Bolt From The Clouds
"The old hen has laid an egg! The old hen has laid an egg!"The performance was moving merrily on, the gasoline lamps sheddinga bright glow over the golden haze of the circus tent, when a diminutiveclown rushed into the arena bearing something in his arms.
　　To the spectators it was just another clownish act, and they laugheduproariously. The circus people, however, realized at once thatsomething not down on the bills was taking place, and they castwondering glances at the little clown, who was dancing about in high glee.
　　"Get out of here!" growled the ringmaster angrily. "What do youmean by breaking into the performance in this way. Out of here, Isay!""The old hen has laid an egg!" repeated the clown, holding aloft theobject that all might see.
　　Teddy Tucker, for it was he, cared nothing for the crowds occupyingthe seats. In fact, it is doubtful that he gave any thought to them at all.
　　"What do you mean?" demanded the ringmaster.
　　"The ostrich. Don't you see?""The ostrich?""Yes, she's laid an egg."Quick to appreciate the value of the clown's interruption, theringmaster took the great egg that Teddy had brought in, and held it aloft.
　　"Ladies and gentlemen," he announced, as the band suddenly ceasedplaying, "wonders never cease in the Great Sparling Shows. You havebeen treated to startling feats of skill upon the lofty flying swings; youhave witnessed desperately dangerous displays of unrivaled aerialism, andyou are about to observe the thundering, furious Roman chariot races threetimes about the arena--""Say, what are you trying to get at?" growled Teddy Tucker. "Giveme back that egg.""But a sensation greater than all of these is in store for you, thoughyou did not know it. The tallest hen in the world has laid an egg for yourinstruction and amusement--the ostrich has immortalized the town ofMilledgeville by laying an egg within its sacred precincts, and my friend,Teddy Tucker, in discovering it, has accomplished an achievement besidewhich the discovery of the north or south pole is a cheap side show."The audience yelled its approval and appreciation.
　　"Young man, what do you intend to do with this wonderful and rarespecimen?""What do I intend to do with it?""Yes. Is it your purpose to present it to this beautiful little city, to beplaced among its other treasures in the city hall?""Well, I guess not!""What, then?""I'm going to eat it. That's what I'm going to do with it," answeredTeddy in a voice loud enough to be heard all over the big top.
　　The people shouted.
　　"Give me that egg!" demanded the Circus Boy, grabbing the big whiteball and marching off toward the paddock with it, to the accompanimentof the laughter and applause of the audience.
　　"Now that we have seen this remarkable Easter achievement, theperformance will proceed," announced the ringmaster, blowing his whistleand waving his hand.
　　The band struck up; the performers, grinning broadly, took up theirwork where they had left off upon the entrance of Teddy Tucker with thegiant egg.
　　The incident had served to put both performers and audience in highgood humor. Mr. Sparling was not present to witness it. He was busydown by the docks, attending to the loading of such of the show'sequipment as was ready to be packed away for shipment on the Sparlingfleet.
　　Perhaps it was just as well for Teddy, that the owner of the show wasnot present, as he might have objected to the Circus Boy's interruption ofthe performance.
　　Teddy was irrepressible. He stood in awe of no one except theLady Snake Charmer, and did pretty much as he pleased all the time.
　　Yet, beneath the surface, there was the making of a manly man, a resolute,sturdy character of whom great things might be expected in the not fardistant future.
　　As the performance proceeded an ominous rumbling was suddenlyheard.
　　"I think it is going to storm," Phil confided to his working mate on theflying trapeze.
　　"Sounds that way. Is that thunder I hear?""Yes.""Guess it won't amount to much. Just a spring shower. You willfind a lot of them along the river for the next month or so.""I have always heard that rivers were wet," replied Phil humorously,swinging off into space, landing surely and gracefully in the arms of thecatcher in the trapeze act.
　　"I think we had better cut the act short.""Oh, no, let's go on with it," answered Phil. "I am not afraid if youare not.""Afraid nothing. I remember still what a narrow escape we had lastseason just before that blow-down, when Wallace, the big lion, made hisescape. That was a lively time, wasn't it?""Rather," agreed Phil.
　　The ringmaster motioned to them to bring their act to a close, and theband leader, catching the significance of the movement, urged hismusicians to play louder. The crash of cymbals and the boom of the bassdrum and the big horns almost drowned out the rumbling of the thunder.
　　Those up near the dome of the tent, still going through their acts, nowheard the patter of heavy rain drops on the canvas top. The lightsthroughout the tent flickered a little under the draught that sucked inthrough the openings in the tent and the open space at the top of the sidewalls.
　　The audience showed signs of restlessness.
　　"It is only a spring shower, ladies and gentlemen," announced theringmaster. "You have no cause for alarm. The hats of the ladies areperfectly safe. This tent is waterproof. You could soak it in theMississippi without getting a drop of water through it. That's the way theSparling show looks out for its patrons. Nothing cheap about theSparling outfit!"A laugh greeted his remarks.
　　A blinding flash faded the gasoline lamps to a ghostly flame. A fewseconds later a crash that shook the earth followed, causing the audienceto shiver with nervous apprehension.
　　Teddy had come out and was gazing aloft. He grinned at Phil, notingat the same time that all the lofty performers were preparing to comedown.
　　"Hello, fraid-cats up there!" jeered the Circus Boy.
　　"You get out of here!" snapped the ringmaster. "What are you doinghere, anyway?""I'm working.""Yes, I see you working. Go on about your business and don't botherme. Don't you think I have anything else to do except to watch you, inorder to prevent your breaking up the performance?""You ought to thank me for keeping you busy," chuckled Teddy,making a lively jump to get out of the way of the long lash that snapped athis heels.
　　Perhaps there was method in Teddy Tucker's movements. Hestrolled out into the concourse, gazing up at the crowded seats, winkingand making wry faces at the people, as he moved slowly along, causingthem to laugh and shout flippant remarks at him.
　　This was exactly what he wanted them to do. It gave Teddy anopportunity to talk back, and many a keen-pointed shaft did he hurl at theunwary who had been imprudent enough to try to make sport of him.
　　While this impromptu act was going on the minds of the people wereso occupied that they forgot all about the storm.
　　The rain was now beating down on the big top in a deluge, and despitethe ringmaster's assurance that the canvas would not leak, a fine spray wasfilling the tent like a thin fog, through which the lights glowed in palecircles.
　　"Even the lamps have halos," Teddy informed the people. "I had oneonce, but the ringmaster borrowed it and forgot to return it. But I don'tcare. He needs a halo more than I do."A howl greeted this sally.
　　Teddy was about to say something else, after the first wave of laughterhad swept over the audience, but no one heard him speak.
　　Another flash, more brilliant, more blinding than any that had gonebefore it, lighted up the tent. The big top seemed suddenly to have beenfilled with fire. Thin threads of it ran down quarter and center pole;circles of it raced about the iron rings used in various parts of the tent, thenjumped into the rigging, running up and down the iron braces and wireropes used to brace the apparatus.
　　The flash was accompanied by a report that was terrifying. At thatinstant a great ball of fire descended from the damp top of the tent,dropping straight toward the concourse. Teddy Tucker chanced to bestanding just beneath it. He had glanced up when the report came, to seeif any damage had been done aloft.
　　"Wow!" breathed Teddy.
　　Just then the ball burst only a few feet above his head, scattering fire inall directions.
　　Teddy fell flat to the ground.
　　He was up almost at once.
　　"I'm all right! How's the rest of the family?" he howled.
　　The rest of the family were too much concerned with what was takingplace in the big top to notice the Circus Boy's humor.
　　Then Teddy observed that the center pole was split from end to end.
　　The lightning bolt had followed it from its peak to the ground. Several ofthe side poles had already given way, and the lad saw the dome of the tentslowly settling.
　　"Hitch it! Anchor it!" he bellowed.
　　The attendants were too frightened to give heed to his words.
　　Phil Forrest was coming down a rope, hand under hand, as rapidly ashe could travel.
　　"Snub the rope or you'll have the tent down on you!" he shouted.
　　Teddy darted forward, throwing himself upon the heavy rope that heldthe dome in place.
　　At that instant the rope on which Phil Forrest was descending gaveway, and Phil came straight down.
　　He landed on Teddy Tucker's head and shoulders, knocking Teddy flaton the ground, where the little Circus Boy lay still. Yet he had, with rarepresence of mind, snubbed the heavy rope around a tent stake, keeping thefree end of the rope in hand, and holding desperately to it.
　　Nor did Teddy release his grip on the rope, now that he had beenknocked unconscious. He held it in place, the strands wound firmlyabout his arm, though inch by inch he was slipping toward the heavy tentstake. Phil had received a severe shaking-up, but he was on his feetquickly, looking about to see on whom he had fallen.
　　When he discovered that Teddy had been the victim, Phil groaned.
　　"I'm afraid I have finished him!"Teddy had now been drawn along by the rope until his head wasagainst the tent stake.
　　"Quick! Lend a hand here!" shouted Phil.
　　He wrenched the rope loose from Tucker's hands, taking a twist abouthis own arms and holding on with all his might.
　　Several ring attendants came to their senses about that time and rushedto his assistance.
　　"Take care of Teddy!" cried Phil.
　　The ringmaster turned Teddy over and looked into the lad's face. Atthat, Teddy opened his eyes and winked. The ringmaster jerked him tohis feet and shook him vigorously.
　　This restored the boy to his normal condition.
　　"Hello, folks!" howled Teddy, turning a handspring, falling over a ringcurbing as he did so.
　　The people forgot their fear and greeted Teddy with wild applause.
　　The Circus Boy had saved a blow-down and perhaps many lives as well.
Chapter 7 In New Quarters
   Though the center pole had been struck by lightning, repairs were soonsufficiently advanced to enable the show to go on and complete theperformance. The pole itself was practically ruined.
　　Fortunately, the show had another one, and the wrecked pole was lefton the lot that night as worthless.
　　After the Roman races the people stood up in their seats and gave threecheers for the boy who had saved many of them from perhaps seriousinjury or death.
　　Teddy heard the cheer. He was in his dressing tent changing hisclothes, having thus far gotten on only his trousers and undershirt.
　　He could not restrain his curiosity, so trotting to the entrance heinquired the cause of the commotion.
　　"They're cheering for you," a canvasman informed him.
　　"For me?""Yes."Teddy needed no more. Without an instant's hesitation he ran out intothe ring, where he stood smiling, bowing and throwing kisses to them.
　　"Come and see us again!" yelled the Circus Boy.
　　"We will that!" answered a chorus of voices.
　　"I'll have the big hen lay another egg for you. I--" His voice wasdrowned in the roar of laughter that followed this sally.
　　Already the attendants were ripping up the seats, loading them into thewagons, with a rattle and bang. Men were shouting, horses neighing;here and there an animal uttered a hoarse-voiced protest at something, itknew not what.
　　Circus animals often scent a change, perhaps more quickly than do thepeople about them.
　　Performers and others, whose duties did not keep them on the lot, werehurrying to get to the dock where the circus boats were waiting, and whereMr. Sparling was attending to the loading.
　　Phil and Teddy were in no less haste. Quickly getting their trunkspacked, they started off for the river. The moon had come out after thestorm and the air was fresh and fragrant, though underfoot the evidencesof the storm were still present.
　　"Did I hurt you much when I fell on you tonight, Teddy?""Hurt me?""Yes?""You knocked the breath out of me. But don't let a little thing likethat worry you. I thought the tent had fallen on me, or at least a centerpole. Lucky I was there, wasn't it?""It was.""You might have received a bump that you wouldn't have gotten overright away.""I might have done so.""I saved your life, didn't I?""Perhaps you did. I had only a few feet to drop, you know. I wasready to drop on all fours lightly when you happened to get in the way--""When I happened to get in the way?""Yes. Didn't you?""Well, I like that," growled Teddy indignantly. "Here I run in andsave your life, willing to sacrifice my own for you and you say when I'happened to get in the way.'"Phil laughed heartily.
　　"Of course, I appreciate your wonderful self-sacrifice. It was verykind of you to get in the way and let me fall on you. Nothing like havinga soft place to fall, is there, old chap?"Teddy uttered an unintelligible growl.
　　"That's right; insult me. I'm only a clown and--and a life-saver--""And one of the best fellows a chap could have for his friend, eh?
　　was only joking, Teddy.""I accept your apology. My hand on it," answered Teddycondescendingly. "Next time you can fall on the ground or any oldplace. I don't care. I shan't try to catch you." "If I remembercorrectly, you could not very well help yourself in this instance. You didnot catch me. I caught you--caught you unawares. There is Mr.
　　Sparling and there are the boats. Don't they look fine, all lighted upinside, their signal lights burning on the outside?""They look wet to me."Thin wisps of smoke were curling lazily from the funnels of the threeboats, for the stokers had not yet started to get up steam. Some hourswould elapse before the fleet would be ready to begin its journey down thebig river.
　　"There goes the 'Little Nemo,'" cried Teddy.
　　The smaller of the three steamboats moved slowly out into the stream,and there came to anchor to await the other boats. The "Fat Marie" wasalready alongside the long dock, but she now moved up a little further tomake room for her companion boat, the "River Queen," which latter Philhad nicknamed the "Yellow Peril.""Let's see, where do we stow our belongings, Phil?""On the 'Fat Marie.'""If that name don't sink her, nothing will," said Teddy, with a broadgrin. "I hope the boat floats better than Fat Marie did when she fell in thecreek last season. If not, we're lost. Let's go on board and find outwhere we are going to live.""After we speak to Mr. Sparling. Is there anything we can do to helpyou, Mr. Sparling?" asked Phil, stepping up to the owner of the show, who,hatless, coatless, his hair looking as if it had not been combed in days, wasgiving orders in sharp, short sentences, answering questions and shoutingdirections almost in the same breath.
　　"Oh, is that you, Phil?""It is myself, sir," smiled the lad. "How are you getting along?""Much better than I had hoped. You see the 'Little Nemo' is alreadyloaded. The 'Fat Marie' is well loaded and the 'Queen' is taking stuff onboard at a two-forty gait.""I see you haven't driven the bulls on yet," meaning the elephants.
　　The elephants were standing off beyond the docks, huge shadowyfigures, swaying silently in the faint light, for there was a slight haze in theair that even the brilliant moonlight could not wholly pierce.
　　"No; I thought it best to load the bulls and the ring stock later on.
　　The bulls might get frightened with all the unusual noises around them.
　　After they become more used to this method of traveling they will be allright.""What time do we pull out?""It will be three o'clock, I think. Perhaps a little later than that.""You mean earlier," suggested Teddy.
　　The showman turned on him sharply.
　　"Why, hello, Teddy. Really, you are so small that I did not seeyou."Teddy winced.
　　"I guess I'm some, even if I am little," protested the lad warmly.
　　"You are right. You are not only some, but _much._ What's this Ihear about trouble on the lot? Some of the men said they heard there hadbeen an accident, but they guessed it didn't amount to much.""It was not very serious," said Phil.
　　"Oh, no; nothing of any consequence," jeered Teddy. "I was struckby lightning, that's all.""What!""Hit by balls of fire--and the big hen laid an egg.""See here, what are you driving at--""And crushed, utterly crushed by my best friend, Phil Forrest. Now,what do you think of that?""Teddy, please hitch your tongue to the roof of your mouth for amoment. Now, Phil, tell me what happened. I get so dizzy when Teddyis talking that I almost imagine I am going to be seasick.""Pshaw!" growled Teddy.
　　"We did have a little trouble.""Tell me about it.""The storm came up while the aerial acts were on. We all shortenedour acts at the direction of the ringmaster, and it was well we did so. Wehad not all gotten down when a bolt of lightning struck the main centerpole.""You don't say! Here, men, stow those canvas wagons forward!
　　You must learn to trim the boat, giving her an even load all over! Didthe bolt do any damage?""Slivered the pole.""Wreck it?""Yes. Not worth carrying off the lot.""What else?""Some excitement--""Panic?""No, but I think there would have been had it not been for my friend,Teddy Tucker. He amused the audience while things were happening upabove.""Good for you, Teddy Tucker," said the showman, slapping the CircusBoy on the back.
　　"Ouch!" howled Teddy.
　　"I was congratulating you, that's all," laughed Mr. Sparling.
　　"If it is all the same to you, please use a club when you congratulateme. I won't feel it so much."Phil next went on to relate how Teddy had, by his quickness, made fastthe rope and probably saved the top from falling in on them, and how he,Phil, had fallen on the boy and knocked him out.
　　Mr. Sparling surveyed the flushed face of Teddy approvingly.
　　"Thank you, Teddy," he said. "I'll give you a day off to go fishing,sometime, for that.""I don't want to go fishing.""Then you are the first showman I ever knew who did not. They aresimply crazy over fishing. You'll see every one of them hanging over therails in the early morning trying to catch fish.""I won't. You'll see me asleep about that time, if you look in the rightplace," answered Teddy very promptly.
　　"Teddy deserves your praise, Mr. Sparling.""He does, and he has it. I will show my appreciation more fullywhen I get all this rush out of the way. The loss of the center pole doesn'tamount to much, but the rest does.""And the hen laid an egg," reiterated Teddy.
　　"Oh, yes, I forgot to tell you. The big ostrich hen laid an egg thisevening.""Is it possible?""Yes; Teddy found it in the hay behind the concert platform."The showman's eyes twinkled.
　　"What were you doing back there?""Looking for a place to take a catnap between acts."Mr. Sparling laughed heartily.
　　"There's only one Teddy in the whole wide world!""I hope not," added the boy quickly.
　　"Where is the egg--what did you do with it?""Got it in my bag here, want to see it?"He handed the egg to Mr. Sparling who turned it over, glancing at itcuriously.
　　"Look out! You'll drop it!""And what are you going to do with it, may I ask?""Eat it.""What, eat up my property?""Eggs belongs to the finder, and--""You mean eggs _belong_ to the finder," corrected Phil.
　　"Yes, I guess so. Any way, so you say it. I'm going to eat this egg,even if it does give me indigestion all the rest of my life. How do youcook ostrich eggs?""I never cooked any, my boy. You will have to consult the cook onthat point. Perhaps he may consent to cook it for you.""I'll give you a slice off the white when it's cooked.""Thank you. You are welcome to the whole egg. Better go up andlocate yourselves, boys.""What number is our room, Mr. Sparling?" asked Phil.
　　"Number twenty-four, on the upper deck. I have given you a nice,roomy, light and airy cabin that I think will please you. It is one of thebest on the ship and you should be very comfortable there.""I am sure we shall be, and thank you very much," said Phil. "Comealong, Teddy."Together they made their way to the boat and through the crowded,bustling lower deck, where the big canvas-covered wagons were beingwarped into place, a sort of orderly confusion reigning over everything,the scene lighted by lanterns swinging from hooks all about the deck.
　　The lads found their cabin, and after lighting the lamp, utteredexclamations of surprise. Instead of the narrow berths they had expectedto see, there were white enameled iron bedsteads, a washstand with thesame neat finish, and several pictures on the walls.
　　The cabin was a large one. In the center of it stood a table on whichlay a large portfolio and inscribed in gold letters on the outside they readthe words, "For the Circus Boys."The portfolio was filled with writing materials.
　　"Oh, isn't that fine?" exclaimed Phil.
　　"Yes, it's a fine egg. I'm going to have the feast of my life when I getit baked--""Teddy Tucker!""What?""What do you think I am talking about?""Eggs.""I am not. I am talking about this beautiful cabin that Mr. Sparlinghas fixed for us. Look at it--look at this portfolio. I am afraid youdon't appreciate how good our employer is to us. There is an easy chairfor each of us, too. Why, we ought to be very happy.""I am happy. So would you be if a hen had laid a five pound egg foryou," retorted Teddy.
　　"Hopeless, hopeless," groaned Phil.
　　Teddy, muttering to himself, carefully laid the egg away in his trunk,first wrapping it up in an old silk ring shirt, then locking the trunk andputting the key in his pocket.
　　The lad then made a personal and critical examination of the room,tried the springs of the bed, nodded approvingly, sat down in one of theeasy chairs and put his feet on the table.
　　Phil promptly pushed the feet off.
　　"Here, what are you doing?""This is not the dressing room of a circus, Teddy. This is the livingroom of a couple of young gentlemen. Let's not forget that. Let us tryto keep our cabin looking nice and shipshape, else Mr. Sparling will thinkwe do not appreciate his kindness.""Say, Phil!""Yes?""I'll tell you what we'll do!""I am listening.""We'll have a spread up here all by ourselves, tomorrow night, after theshow. We'll eat the egg. I'll get the cook to boil it all day tomorrow-doesit take a day to boil an ostrich egg?""I should think it might take a month," laughed Phil. "Yes; I'll makea martyr of myself and help you eat the egg. I shall never have any peaceuntil that egg is finally disposed of--""What's going on downstairs?" interrupted Teddy.
　　A commotion was heard out on the dock. There was the tramping ofmany feet, mingled with loud, angry shouts and sharp commands.
　　"It sounds to me as if something has been let loose," said TeddyTucker wisely.
　　Something had been "let loose."With one accord the Circus Boys sprang up. Rushing out into thecorridor they leaped down the after companionway four steps at a jump.
Chapter 8 January On The Rampage
"What's the row? What's the row?" bellowed Teddy, who, boltingunder a cage and, leaving his hat under the wagon, dashed out to the dock,where their vessel was moored.
　　The two boys saw an object leaping into the air, performing strangeand grotesque antics.
　　"It's January!" yelled Teddy. "Whoa, January!"But January refused to "whoa." The donkey had objected to goingaboard the boat. When the workmen tried to force him, he protestedvigorously, biting those in front and kicking those behind him.
　　"Teddy, get that fool donkey out of here or I'll throw him in the river,"bawled the owner of the show.
　　Perhaps January understood the threat. At least he started for Mr.
　　Sparling, snorting.
　　The showman ducked under a canvas wagon and climbed up the otherside of it, giving his orders from the top of the wagon. He knew January.
　　He had had business dealings with the donkey on other occasions.
　　"Get him out of here, I tell you!""Drive him in yourself," answered a groom. "I wouldn't try it for apresent of the whole confounded show."Up to this point those who had not left the dock willingly January hadassisted with his ever ready hoofs, and, by the time Teddy reached thescene the donkey had kicked every man off and into the street, exceptingthe owner of the show himself. As already related, Mr. Sparling hadseen fit to leave in haste when January directed his attention to him.
　　"Whoa, January!" commanded Teddy in a soothing tone.
　　The donkey, at sound of the Circus Boy's voice, reared and came downfacing Teddy.
　　"Come here, you beast. Don't you know you're going to have a rideon the river? You don't know enough to know when you are well off.
　　Come, Jany, Jany, Jany. Wow!"January had responded with a rush. Teddy stepped aside just in timeto save himself from being bowled over. But as the donkey ran by himthe boy threw both arms about the animal's neck.
　　Then began the liveliest scrimmage that the spectators had everwitnessed. Kicking and bucking, the donkey raced from side to side,varying his performance now and then by making a dive toward thecrowd, which quickly gave gangway as the people sought for safety.
　　"Whoa, January! I--I'll break your neck for this, hang you! Someother donkey has taught you these tricks. You never knew anythingabout them way back in Edmeston. You--"Bang!
　　Teddy was slapped against the side of the "Fat Marie."By this time Tucker's temper was beginning to rise. His firstinclination was to hit the donkey on the nose with his free hand, but hecaught himself in time. He was too fond of animals, even donkeys, tostrike one on the head. It was a rule too, in the Sparling shows, that anyman who so far forgot himself as to strike a horse over the head closedwith the show then and there.
　　Now Teddy thought of a new plan. He watched his opportunity.
　　Suddenly, Teddy put his plan into operation.
　　It must be remembered that the Circus Boy was strong and agile, andthat his work in the ring had given him added quickness.
　　He therefore applied the trick he had thought of; then somethinghappened to January. The donkey struck the planking of the pier flat onhis back, his feet beating the air viciously.
　　"Whoa, January!"Teddy flopped the animal on its side, then calmly sat down on thedonkey's head. He had thrown the beast as prettily as ever had a wrestleran adversary.
　　The Circus Boy began mopping the perspiration from his brow.
　　"Warm, isn't it?" he said, tilting his eyes up to where Mr. Sparling hadbeen watching the proceedings from the top of a wagon.
　　"You certainly look the part. Now, what are you going to do with thatfool donkey?"48"I'm going to sit on his head until I get ready to get up. Then, ifsomebody will lend me a whip, I'll tan his jacket to my own taste."January uttered a loud bray.
　　"Well, do something," shouted a canvasman. "We can't wait all nighton the gait of that donkey.""All right; if any of you fellows think you know the inside workings ofa donkey's mind better than I do, just come and lead this angelic creatureon board the 'Fat Marie.'""No, no; we don't know anything about donkeys," came a chorus ofvoices. "We don't want to know anything about donkeys, either.""Somebody bring me a bridle, then. Don't be afraid of him, he is asgentle as a lamb. You wouldn't hurt a fly, would you, dear January?"January elevated both hind feet, narrowly missing the groom who hadbrought the bridle.
　　After some difficulty the bystanders succeeded in getting the bitbetween his teeth and the bridle over his head.
　　"Now, take tight hold of the bridle and lead him. I'll use persuasivemeasures at the other end," directed Teddy.
　　January fairly hurled himself forward, jerking the groom off his feet atonce. But the man hung on stubbornly.
　　A moment more, and Teddy had fastened a firm grip on January's tail,not appearing to be in the least afraid of the flying hoofs that were beatinga tattoo in the air.
　　How Teddy did twist that tail! Finally January, in sheer desperation,was forced to give ground. One leap carried him over the gangplank andinto the boat. Once within, there was a repetition of the scenes enactedon the dock, except that this time it was the groom who was getting theworst of it, while Teddy sat on the gangway, howling with delight.
　　At last the donkey was subdued and led to the place where he was tospend the night. But they had to rope him in to prevent his kicking theother stock through the side of the boat.
　　Fat Marie herself came waddling along about this time, blowing like aminiature steam engine.
　　"Gangway! Gangway!" shrieked Marie, in a high-pitched, shrillvoice.
　　Teddy was nearly crowded off the gangplank.
　　"See here, where are you going? Don't you know there's a crazydonkey in there?""Going to my cabin to seek sweet repose," squeaked Marie.
　　"What! Are you going to live on this boat?""That's what. If I can get up to the sky parlor where my 'boodwah' is.
　　Come, help me up the stairs; that's a good boy, Teddy.""I helped you once. That was enough for me. Say, Marie?""What is it, my lad?""If the boat should be wrecked in one of the terrible storms that sweepthis raging river you had better grab the anchor the first thing.""Why grab the anchor?""You'll sink quicker," laughed the Circus Boy, darting out to the dockand leaning against a wagon wheel.
　　By this time Mr. Sparling had descended from his haven of safety, andbegan issuing orders again.
　　"Get the bulls in now. No more nonsense. Teddy, you did a goodjob, but it took you a long time to do it.""Yes, sir. Do you think anybody else could have done it quicker?""I know they could not. Where is Phil?""Guess he went back to his cabin after I finished off January. Goingto load the elephants, did you say?""Yes.""Aren't you afraid they will sink the boat?""Don't bother us now. You know we did not bother you when youwere trying to get your livestock in.""I noticed that you didn't," answered Teddy, humorously, whichremark brought a shout of laughter from everyone within hearing of hisvoice.
　　Mr. Kennedy, the elephant-trainer, now ranged his charges in line, withJupiter, the ill-tempered member of the herd, in the lead. He wanted toget Jupiter in ahead, knowing that the others would follow willinglyenough after him. Emperor, the great beast that had such a warm regardfor Phil, was third in the line.
　　"Everybody keep away and don't make a racket or they will getnervous. I expect to have a little trouble with those bulls the first time.
　　After that they will go one board as meek as a flock of spring mutton,"declared Kennedy. Teddy was close at hand. If there was any prospectof trouble or excitement he wanted to be near enough not to miss a singlefeature of it.
　　Mr. Kennedy gave the command for attention.
　　Each of the elephants to the rear of Jupiter stretched forth a trunk andgrasped the tail of the elephant directly in front of him.
　　"Forward, march!""Hip! Hip!" began Teddy.
　　"That will do, young man," warned Mr. Sparling.
　　The line moved slowly forward, Jupiter offering no objection to goingwhere he was ordered.
　　Just as he reached the gangplank, however, Jupiter halted.
　　"Forward!"The elephant's trunk curled upward and a mighty trumpeting sent thevillagers scurrying for places of safety.
　　Mr. Kennedy prodded the elephant with the sharp point of his hook.
　　The act forced Jupiter to place one foot on the gang plank, throwing hisweight upon the planking to test its stability. He felt it give ever so littlebeneath his feet, and quickly withdrew the foot.
　　Once more the prod was brought into use. Jupiter waxed angry.
　　With a great cough, he curled his trunk about the heavy gangplank,wrenching it free from its resting place.
　　Raising the planking high above his head he hurled it into the river.
　　"Ladies and gentlemen," announced Teddy Tucker, in a loud voice,"you have witnessed a most satisfying, edifying, gratifying, ennobling,superb and sublime spectacular prelude, as our press agent would say.
　　But, if you know what's good for you, you will now hasten to the highplaces, for there's going to be something doing around here in about aminute."Teddy was no false prophet in this instance.
　　Strutting up to the angry Jupiter the Circus Boy slapped him playfullyon the trunk.
　　"You bad boy. I thought January was the limit, but I have changedmy mind. You--"Suddenly Jupiter's trunk curled about the lad. The angry elephantraised the boy far above his head and hurled him up into the air as he haddone with the gangway, except that he threw Teddy in another direction.
Chapter 9 Phil Forrest To The Rescue
    "Catch Teddy! Catch him!" shouted Mr. Sparling.
　　"The boy has gone into the river!" cried half a dozen voices at once.
　　"No; the bull threw him toward the boat. He may have shot right onover and into the water or he may still be on the upper deck," answered Mr.
　　Kennedy, as he plied his prod industriously, shouting his orders to theother elephants that already were showing signs of restlessness.
　　By this time a boat had been launched from the dock, and half a dozenmen had gone in search of the lost gangway that was now floating slowlydown the river some distance away.
　　"Ahoy, boat!" bellowed Mr. Sparling. "Row around to the other sideand see if Tucker is in the river."At the same time the owner of the show was running toward the"Marie." He plunged into the mass of equipment on the lower deck,lost his footing and went rolling under a lion's cage. He was on his feetand bounding up the stairs almost in the next second.
　　Just as he reached the upper deck he met Phil Forrest emerging fromthe cabin, attracted by the uproar.
　　"What's the matter, sir?""Teddy," answered the showman shortly.
　　"Oh, that boy again! What is it?""Jupiter tossed him.""Where is he?""Maybe in the river. Help me look for him up here. They aresearching for him on the other side of the boat."Phil started on a run along one side of the deck, Mr. Sparling takingthe other side.
　　"Here he is. Ahoy, boat! Go and get the gangway. I have the boyhere," called Mr. Sparling.
　　Phil hurried over to where Mr. Sparling was bending over Teddy, wholay doubled up against the pilot house.
　　"Is he hurt?""I don't know. I'll tell you when I get him untangled. He seems tobe standing on his head. Lucky if his neck isn't broken.""Teddy's neck is too tough to be easily broken. I think he is merelystunned," said Phil.
　　The showman straightened the Circus Boy out, and Teddy suddenly satup, rubbing his head and neck gingerly.
　　"Did January kick me?" he demanded wonderingly.
　　"No; Jupiter threw you up here. Are you hurt?""Hurt?""Yes.""I'm worse than that. I'm like the carpenter who swallowed a tapemeasure. I'm dying by inches."Mr. Sparling uttered an impatient exclamation.
　　"Take care of him, Phil. I must get back. There is trouble downthere."The showman hurried away, and Phil saw at once that his companionhad sustained a severe shock, but nothing of a serious nature.
　　"You're all right, Teddy. What is the trouble down there?"Teddy, still rubbing himself, explained what had happened.
　　Just then there came a call from below.
　　"Oh, Phil!""Yes.""Can you come down here?""Of course. What is it?""Mr. Sparling wants you.""I'll be right there."The lad, instead of taking the time to go down the companionway,swung over the side of the boat and dropped lightly to the wharf. Such isthe advantage of being a showman.
　　"Mr. Kennedy is having trouble with the bulls, Phil," explained Mr.
　　Sparling.
　　"Yes; so Teddy told me.""He thinks you may be able to suggest some way out of ourdifficulty. Mr. Kennedy has great confidence in your resourcefulness.""What have you done thus far?"Mr. Sparling explained briefly, Phil giving close attention.
　　"Have they found the gangplank yet?""Yes; they are towing it up to the dock now."Phil waited until they had hauled the gangway up and put it in place.
　　"Will you try her, so that I can see how she works, Mr. Kennedy?"asked the lad after the gangway had been chained down so securely thatthe elephant would have difficulty in ripping it loose.
　　Jupiter was just as stubborn as he had been before. Phil observedthree or four showmen standing near him on the other side.
　　"Please step back, all of you," he said. "Mr. Sparling, will you seethat no one comes near the elephants? I'll see what I can do. Back himoff, Mr. Kennedy."This done, Phil stepped back along the line until he came to the bigelephant Emperor.
　　"Good old Emperor," cried the Circus Boy soothingly. "Here's alump of sugar."Emperor tucked the sugar far back in his pink mouth. Then Phil,taking hold of the trunk, petted it affectionately, next tucking it under hisarm.
　　"Come along, old fellow. You need not be afraid," he said, startingtoward the ship, with Emperor following meekly and obediently. Atthe gangway he stopped and examined the passageway carefully.
　　"Are you sure it is strong enough to support them, Mr. Kennedy?""Yes, it will hold two at once.""Very well."Once more Phil took hold of the trunk and led Emperor across and intothe boat, the elephant making no protest; though, knowing him as he did,Phil saw that the animal was timid. The beast's confidence in the littleCircus Boy overcame his fears, however.
　　Emperor got another lump of sugar as the result of his obedience.
　　"See if Jupiter will follow," called Phil.
　　Jupiter would not.
　　Observing this, Phil swung Emperor around and led him to the dock.
　　"What are you going to do?" asked Mr. Sparling.
　　"Perhaps nothing at all. If Mr. Kennedy failed I do not see how Ishall be able to accomplish anything. Get Jupiter up to the gangway,please."This was done.
　　"When I say the word, you give Jupiter the hook good and hard andquick. I'll promise you that something will happen. See here; didn't Itell you fellows to keep away from those elephants?" demanded the boy,observing two figures edging up toward Emperor.
　　"Clear the dock!" roared Mr. Sparling.
　　A sudden thought seemed to strike Phil. He left Emperor and steppedaround to the other side of the animal walking about and peering into thefaces of the people who now were standing back at a respectful distance.
　　Most of them proved to be villagers, with a few circus people sprinkledamong them.
　　"Did you notice who those two men were who were standing on theother side, Mr. Sparling?" he asked in a low tone.
　　"No; why?""I wanted to know.""Why do you ask that question?""Because I am suspicious of them, that's all."Making sure that the dock was clear, Phil led Emperor up to Jupiter,placing the former's head against the hips of the stubborn elephant.
　　"Now!" he shouted, at the same time giving Emperor the signal topush.
　　The big elephant threw all his great strength into a forwardmovement. Jupiter, taken off his guard, plunged across the gangplank,with Emperor pushing him along, the former trumpeting wildly in his fearand rage. Another minute, and Jupiter was landed safely on the lowerdeck of the "Fat Marie."
Chapter 10 All Aboard For The Gulf!
　　Day was breaking.
　　Clouds of dense black smoke were rolling from the funnels of theSparling fleet, while steam was hissing from the overburdened safetyvalves.
　　The show was ready for its start down the river. The "Little Nemo"had already hoisted anchor and was drifting with the current awaiting thesignal to start her engines.
　　"All ashore that's going," sang a voice on each of the two boats lyingat the dock.
　　The boats' whistles broke out in three deafening, prolonged blastseach.
　　"Cast off!" bellowed the pilots.
　　Hawsers were hauled in and the distance between the dock and theboats slowly widened.
　　"We're off," shouted Teddy, waving his hat joyously.
　　"We will be more so, unless we get some sleep," warned Phil. "Iwould suggest that you and I turn in for a few hours. We both need abeauty sleep.""I don't," answered Teddy promptly.
　　"Think not?""No, sir. I'm handsome enough as it is. Even the fool donkeystands aghast when he comes face to face with my surpassing beauty.""How about the elephants?" twinkled Phil.
　　"Elephants don't count, at least not after twelve o'clock at night.""I move that we turn in just the same. We will sleep until sometimebefore noon, then we can get up and enjoy the ride. I understand weshall not reach the next stand until sometime this evening. This isgoing to be a great trip, Teddy.""It has been," nodded the other boy. "Where do we show first?""Milroy, I believe is the name of the place. I never heard of itbefore.""And probably you never will want to again, after you have beenthere. That is the case with most of these little tank towns. A fellowwonders where all the people come from who go to the show."The lads went to their cabin and were soon sound asleep. Theyrealized how tired they were when first they got into bed.
　　"This is great!" muttered Phil, as, lying in his bed, he felt the cool airdrifting in over him.
　　When they awakened the sun was at its zenith.
　　Phil consulted his watch.
　　"Wake up, Teddy. It is twelve o'clock."Teddy sleepily dragged himself from his bed, pulled himself wearily tothe window and threw open the blinds.
　　"Where are we?" asked Phil.
　　"Ask the pilot," grumbled Teddy. "How do you suppose I know?
　　This water looks like a big mud puddle. I'm hungry; aren't you?""Yes, I am. What are we going to do for breakfast? I never thoughtto bring along a lunch.""I've got an egg," chuckled Teddy.
　　"You are welcome to it. I don't care for any, thank you."Just then there came a rap on their door.
　　Phil opened it and looked out.
　　"Mr. Sparling wishes to know if you are ready for breakfast?" askedthe man, whom they recognized as the showman's personal servant.
　　"Am I ready for breakfast?" shouted Teddy. "Tell Mr. Sparling heought to know better than to ask a question like that. What's this, a joke?
　　We can't get any breakfast on this old tub.""Mr. Sparling directs me to ask you to join him in his cabin forbreakfast in ten minutes.""Thank you. Tell him we shall be on hand," smiled Phil.
　　"I hope it isn't a joke," grumbled Teddy, pulling on his trousers.
　　"Now, isn't that fine of Mr. Sparling, old fellow?" asked Phil, withglowing eyes.
　　"Tell you better after I sample the breakfast. I'm suspicious.""You need not be. Mr. Sparling would not be so unkind as to inviteus to eat breakfast with him unless he had some breakfast to offer us.""Well, I hope it's straight," muttered the doubting Teddy. A fewminutes later the lads presented themselves at the door of the owner'scabin.
　　"Good morning, boys; how did you sleep last night?" he greeted them,with a cordial smile and a handshake for each.
　　"I was dead to the world," answered Teddy, with his customarybluntness of speech.
　　"I guess we all were," smiled the showman. "All day and all nightwas rather trying, but we shall not have the same trouble after this; at leastnot after the next stand. Everything should be in excellent working orderafter Monday. Sit down and have some breakfast with me."An appetizing meal had been spread in the cabin. Teddy surveyedthe table with wistful eyes.
　　"I did not know you were going to serve meals on board," said Phil.
　　"I am not, generally speaking. This is different. I would not ask ourpeople to go all day without anything to eat. I have had a cold mealprepared in the main cabin, with hot coffee to wash it down. I thoughtyou boys might like to join me here for a real meal. Having a real mealis one of the privileges of the owner of the show, you know," replied Mr.
　　Sparling, with a hearty laugh, in which the boys joined.
　　"I was going to eat my egg," said Teddy humorously.
　　"It is very kind of you, Mr. Sparling," said Phil. "We were justwondering what we should do for breakfast, and Teddy, as he has just toldyou, was thinking of eating the ostrich egg.""Raw?""I presume so," replied Phil, with a short laugh.
　　"It would make a fellow strong," declared Teddy in defense of his egg.
　　"I agree with you, my boy. I ate a piece of one once, and it was quitethe strongest thing I ever tackled.""That's a joke. Ha, ha!" replied Teddy, with serious face.
　　The lads were, by this time, on such terms of intimacy with theiremployer that they felt free to talk with him as they would to each other.
　　At least Phil did, and in all probability Tucker would have done so at anyrate.
　　"Do we unload tonight, Mr. Sparling?" questioned Phil.
　　"No, I think not. Tomorrow morning will be time enough. I neverlike to do any more work on Sunday than is absolutely necessary."Phil nodded his approval.
　　"I believe in observing the day, and besides, our people need the restand the relaxation. That reminds me of what I wanted to say. You did avery clever piece of work last night, both of you."Teddy glanced up in surprise.
　　"Yes; I got a roughhouse from the donkey and the elephant. I'm asort of a good thing all around. When the fool donkey gets throughwiping up a whole county with me, the elephant takes a hand--a trunk, Imean--and lands me high and dry on the roof of the 'Fat Marie.'""You mean the deck," corrected Phil.
　　"I don't know what you call it, but it was hard enough when I struck it.
　　Next time I'm going to have a net spread to catch me. I'll bet I would havemade a hit in the ring with that donkey wrestling bout. I guess I will tryit on some of these times, providing I can get the donkey to work the wayhe did last night.""As I said before, there is something I want to ask you, Phil," repeatedthe showman.
　　"Yes, sir.""Did it not strike you that Jupiter acted very peculiarly last night?""Yes. I did not see the first of it, but I saw enough.""What did you think about it?""I did not know what to think."The showman shot a keen glance at the Circus Boy's thoughtful,serious face.
　　"What do you think today?""That it was perfectly natural for Jupiter to balk going across thegangplank.""How about him having hurled Teddy to the deck of the 'Fat Marie'?""That is different.""Did it arouse any suspicions in your mind, my boy?"Phil reflected for a moment, toying absently with his fork.
　　"Candidly, it did, Mr. Sparling. It struck me as peculiar at the time,and, as I thought it over, I became more and more convinced that therewas some reason for Jupiter's action beyond what we saw."The showman nodded, as if Phil's suggestion agreed with his ownideas.
　　"What do you think happened?" he asked.
　　"What do you think?""I will confess that I don't know, Phil. You had some reason fordriving everyone away from the bulls there on the dock, did you not?""Yes, I did not want anyone to bother them while we were trying to getthem on board.""I understand," said Mr. Sparling, with a nod.
　　"Did you notice who was there on the dock at the time, Mr. Sparling?""No, not particularly.""Was it some of the show people?""I am unable to say. I saw you drive two men off in particular, but Idid not look at them closely. Did you know them?""Perhaps. They got away rather too quickly for me to make sure.""Who do you think they were?"Phil did not answer at once.
　　"Come, who were they, Phil?""I don't know, Mr. Sparling.""I did not mean it exactly that way. You think you recognized them,and as I said before, I want to know who you think the men were?""I would rather not say, Mr. Sparling," answered the Circus Boy,looking his employer squarely in the eye.
　　"It is your duty to tell me.""Not unless I am sure. It would be unjust to do so, and I know youwould not wish to force me to be unjust.""You are a queer boy, Phil Forrest," said the showman, gazing at thelad intently.
　　"I wish I knew who I thought they were, if they had anything to dowith my aerial flight last night," growled Teddy. "They would havereason to think a Kansas cyclone had struck them."No one paid any attention to Teddy's remark.
　　"I will tell you what I think, however, Mr. Sparling," continued Phil.
　　"That's what I am trying to get you to do.""I think some person with evil intent did something to Jupiter toanger him, thus causing him to turn on Teddy. And it is my opinion thatif you will examine the animal you will find the evidences on the animalhimself," declared the Circus Boy boldly.
　　Mr. Sparling uttered an angry exclamation.
　　Teddy, who had tilted back in his chair as he listened to theconversation, went crashing to the floor, overturning table, dishes and all.
　　That broke up the conference of the morning.
Chapter 11 Egg, Egg, Who's Got The Egg?
　　"I've lost my egg! I've lost my egg!"Teddy Tucker's shrill voice was heard from one end to the other of the"Fat Marie." An hour had elapsed since his mishap in Mr. Sparling'scabin, during which time the lads had been sitting on the after deck of theboat.
　　Phil had been very thoughtful. Perhaps he had not done right inkeeping his real suspicions from Mr. Sparling. Yet he was firm in hispurpose not to say who he thought the men were. He was not at allcertain, in his own mind, that his eyes had not deceived him.
　　There could be no doubt, however, that some person or persons hadpricked Jupiter on a tender part of his anatomy just as Teddy Tucker waspatting the trunk of the great beast.
　　Teddy had gone to his cabin for a moment, and no sooner had heopened the door than he discovered that all was not as it should be there.
　　"What's this? What's all this fuss about?" questioned Phil.
　　"My egg! My egg!""What about your egg?""It's gone, it's gone!""Gone?""Yes, yes.""But I thought you locked it in your trunk?""That's what I did.""Then how can it be gone?""It is, I tell you. Come and see, if you don't believe me.""Of course I believe you, but I do not see how it would be possible foryour egg to be taken when it was locked in your trunk," objected Phil.
　　Teddy grasped his companion by the arm and rushed him to the cabin.
　　"There, look!" exclaimed Teddy, pushing Phil into the room.
　　Teddy's trunk was open, most of its contents lying in a confused heapon the cabin floor.
　　Phil's face grew serious.
　　"Now, let's understand this. Was your trunk in that condition whenyou came in here a little while ago?""Yes.""Are you sure?""Well, some of the stuff was sticking out, but the cover was down.""The trunk was unlocked?""Sure it was.""You are positive that you locked it?""I know it was locked.""Is anything missing--have you looked to make sure?""I tell you my egg has been taken.""I know. Has anything else been taken?""I was so excited that I didn't look.""Then, do so now."Teddy dropped down beside his trunk, and began goingbelongings, most of which were lying heaped on the flooexamined everything closely.
　　"How about it?"overr.
　　hisHe"I--I guess it is all here--but my egg is not, Phil.""So I heard you say before.""Where is it--where is it?""How do you suppose I know? You are lucky that nothing else wastaken. Is the lock broken?""No. Somebody had a key.""Almost any key made for an ordinary trunk will fit these steamertrunks." Phil proved this by selecting and trying three keys on his ownkey ring, each of which locked and unlooked Teddy's steamer trunk withease.
　　"I'll bet you took my egg for a joke.""Teddy Tucker, how can you say so," demanded Phil indignantly.
　　"Did I ever do a thing like that?""No, I guess you didn't," admitted the boy. "But it's gone.""It is evident that we have a thief on board. Mr. Sparling must beinformed of this at once," decided Phil firmly. "You remain here and Iwill go and fetch him."In a few moments the Circus Boy returned with Mr. Sparling. Theshowman made a careful examination of the room and the trunk on hisown account. His face was flushed and angry.
　　He went over the same ground with his questions that Phil already haddone.
　　"Do you suspect anyone, Phil?""I do not. Whom should I suspect? Nothing like this has everhappened in the Sparling show since I have been connected with it.""You are right. It won't be healthful for the man who is responsiblefor this, if I catch him," growled the showman. "Somebody must beunusually fond of ostrich eggs to go to this length for one. If anyone inthis show chances to dine on ostrich egg in the next twenty-four hours weshall know whom to accuse of the theft.""I do not think you will get the opportunity," said Phil, with a peculiarsmile.
　　"What do you mean by that remark?""That it was not taken because the thief wanted to eat it. He wouldnot be foolish enough to do that.""Then why?""Probably to get even with Teddy."Mr. Sparling eyed him sternly.
　　"You mean somebody had a grudge against Teddy?"Phil nodded.
　　"Who?""I do not know.""Teddy, who is it in this show who has a grudge against you?"Teddy pondered.
　　"I don't know of anybody unless it's January," he made solemn reply.
　　"The fool donkey? Bah!""I guess the donkey did not unlock your trunk and steal your egg,Teddy," answered Phil, a half smile curling his lips.
　　"I am not going to ask you again whom you suspect. I take it forgranted that you will keep your eyes open from now on.""I certainly shall, Mr. Sparling.""If you are unable to find out who is responsible for certain things I amsure there is no use in my trying to do so.""I do not know about that, Sir. I shall try. If I find out anythingworthwhile I shall come to you and tell you.""I shall expect you to do so. And, Teddy!""Yes, sir.""You are to say nothing of this occurrence to anyone on the boat. Donot mention that your precious egg has been lost or stolen, nor appear as ifanything out of the ordinary had occurred."Teddy nodded his understanding.
　　Mr. Sparling understood his boys better than they knew. He wasconfident that Phil Forrest had a shrewd idea as to who had aroused theanger of the elephant, Jupiter, as well as to the identity of the person whohad stolen the egg from Teddy Tucker's trunk.
　　The Circus Boy, however, kept his own counsel.
　　He made a trip down to the lower deck and had a long conversationwith Mr. Kennedy, the elephant trainer, while Teddy Tucker moped in hiscabin, mourning over the loss of his egg.
　　The show reached Milroy shortly before dark that evening, after amost delightful trip down the river. The horse tents were unloaded andpitched on the circus lot and the stock stabled in them so the animals couldget their rest and food.
　　Some of the show people strolled out through the little town, whileothers remained on board the boat and went to bed. All hands sleptaboard that night. Bright and early, on the following morning, the boatswere unloaded and the tents pitched, the men working much better fortheir day on the river.
　　Everyone appeared to be in high good humor and the wisdom of Mr.
　　Sparling's methods was apparent. The tents went up more quickly thatmorning than at any time that season.
　　Breakfast under the cook tent was a jolly meal. Teddy had nearlyforgotten the loss of the ostrich egg, but Phil Forrest had not. Phil, whilenot appearing to do so, was watching certain persons in the dressing tent,among them being Diaz, the Spanish clown.
　　During the dressing hour before the afternoon performance the clownhad his trunk open to get out some costumes which were at the bottom,beneath the lower tray.
　　Phil's trunk, it will be remembered, was close by that of the clown's.
　　The Circus Boy took advantage of the opportunity to peep into the opentrunk while Diaz was rummaging over its contents. So absorbed did Philbecome in his own investigation that he forgot for the moment that theowner of the trunk might resent such curiosity.
　　All at once Phil glanced down at the clown. He found the dark eyesof Diaz fixed upon him, and the lad flushed in spite of himself.
　　Diaz slowly rose to his feet. Thrusting his face close to that of the ladhe peered into the boy's face.
　　"What you want?""Nothing, thank you.""You look for something in the trunk of Diaz, eh?""Perhaps.""What for you look?""Maybe I was looking for an egg. Maybe I thought the clown Diazcarried a supply of freshly laid eggs in his dressing-room trunk," said Philin a tone too low for the others to catch, all the time holding the eyes ofthe clown in a steady gaze.
　　The eyes of the clown expressed surprise, but there was so muchgrease paint and powder on his face that the boy could not tell whether thefellow had flushed or not.
　　That Diaz was angry, however, was clear.
　　"What you mean?" demanded the clown, with a threatening gesture.
　　"If you do not know, I don't believe I care to explain just now.""What you mean?" repeated the clown, his voice rising to a higherpitch. "You--you think I a thief?""If I thought so I might be too courteous to say so," was the calmretort. "What makes you imagine that I think you a thief? You musthave some reason--you must believe there is some truth in your selfaccusation, or you would not be so quick to resent it.""I--I--""Remember, I have not accused you of anything. You have accusedyourself."Perhaps there was method in Phil's nagging--perhaps he was trying togoad the Spaniard into an admission that could be used against him. Ifthat were his purpose he had only partly succeeded.
　　Diaz, who had closed the cover of his trunk with a bang, now sprangto the trunk again, jerking up the cover with such force as to nearlywrench it from its hinges.
　　Two trays came out and were hurled to the ground as the owner diveddeeper and deeper into the chest.
　　"What's the matter? Have you gone crazy?" questioned Phil,laughing in spite of himself. "Come on, now; don't lose your temper. Ifyou will stop to consider, you will recall that I have said nothing at whichyou might possibly take offence."To this the clown made no reply.
　　All at once he straightened up with a snarl that reminded Phil of thecough of the tiger out in the menagerie as the beast struck viciously at itskeeper when the latter chanced to step too close to the bars of the cage.
　　Diaz stood all a-quiver.
　　"This looks like trouble of some sort," muttered Phil Forrest. "But Idon't quite understand what he could have been hunting for in the trunk."Phil's question was answered a few seconds later.
　　>From the folds of the clown's costume his hand suddenly shotupward. The hand held a knife. The hand shook from rage as the knifewas brandished aloft.
　　"Hello, so that's the game, is it?"The Circus Boy stood his ground unflinchingly. He did not appear tobe disturbed in the least, though his situation at that moment was a criticalone.
　　"Diaz! Diaz! Drop that knife!" ordered Phil sternly.
　　Instead of obeying the command the clown leaped upon him, or uponthe spot where Phil had been standing a second before. The lad hadsprung back far enough so that the descending knife cut only the emptyair.
　　Again the knife flashed up. Just as it was being raised, the boyleaped again. This time he sprang toward the enraged clown, rather thanaway from him.
　　Ere the knife could be brought down, Phil gripped the wrist holdingthe weapon, giving the wrist a quick, sharp twist that brought a roar ofpain from Diaz.
　　The knife dropped to the ground. Phil calmly stooped and picked itup, while the clown was nursing his wrist and groaning.
　　Several performers, realizing that something out of the ordinary wasgoing on in that corner of the tent, hurried over.
　　"What's the matter here?""Diaz was showing me his knife. It's a beauty, isn't it?" answeredPhil, with a pleasant smile. "I think, however, it is a little too pretty for acircus. Were I in your place, Diaz, I should keep it in my trunk elsesomeone may steal it."The lad coolly raised the lid of the trunk, dropping the knife in. Theothers, not noting that the clown was hurt, and that his wrist had beentwisted by the Circus Boy almost to the breaking point, turned back totheir own corners and continued their labors preparatory to entering thering.
　　"Mr. Diaz," said Phil in a low voice, bending over the clown, "yourtemper is going to get you into serious trouble one of these fine days. Iam sorry I had to hurt you. But let me tell you one thing. If you attackme again I shall be compelled to give you the worst licking you ever hadin your life. Put that in one of your fool caps that you throw around thearena, so you won't forget it. Behave yourself and you will find that I ama pretty good friend."
Chapter 12 Trying Out A New Act
"Well, Dimples, I hope you and I do not make sad exhibitions ofourselves this evening.""I hope not, Phil. I am sure you will not, but I am not so sure ofmyself."The afternoon performance had passed off without incident, save thatthe performers had given a much better show than usual. Everyone feltfresh and strong after his Sunday rest.
　　It was now evening. The band was playing its loudest, the clownswere fast and furious in their fun, and the animals out in the menagerietent were doing their part toward raising a din that might have been heardat least half a mile away.
　　Phil Forrest had already been in for his trapeze act, and after changinghis costume had come out again for the bareback riding number, to whichhe always looked forward with pleasurable anticipation.
　　At the same time Little Dimples, the star female bareback rider, hadcome up and joined him and the two fell to talking, as they always didwhenever the opportunity presented itself.
　　Long ago the circus woman had constituted herself the "mother of theCircus Boys," as she expressed it. She always insisted on doing theirsewing for them, helped them to plan their costumes and gave themfriendly advice on all occasions.
　　The act which they were entering the ring to perform on this particularevening was a new one. The two had been practicing it since thebeginning of the season--practicing in secret that they might put it on as asurprise to Mr. Sparling.
　　This was what is known as a "brother and sister act." That is, thestrong man and woman proposed to perform on the back of the same horse,and at the same time.
　　The brother and sister act was not a new act by any means, but theyhad added ideas of their own to it until it had become novel. They hadessayed some daring and sensational features which were sure to create asensation with any audience before which the act was performed.
　　"It is a small town," said Dimples. "We don't care if we do fall off,do we, Phil, my boy?""We most certainly do care. At least, _I_ do. Where's yourprofessional pride, Dimples?" demanded Phil, with an indulgent smile.
　　"In my feet, I guess," answered the woman, with a merry laugh. "Iam making my living with my feet. Were they not so sure, enabling meto stand on the slippery back of a ring horse, I should not be drawing thefine salary that I now have. Neither would you.""Here we are at the ring," interrupted Phil. "The audience isapplauding us before we begin. They must be expecting something outof the ordinary."As a matter of fact, the two riders made a very pleasing appearance asthey entered the ring. Phil, slender, athletic, manly; Dimples exquisitelydainty, looking almost as fragile as a piece of Dresden china, they were apair to attract attention anywhere.
　　The spectators did not even dream that Little Dimples was a marriedwoman, with a son almost as old as Phil Forrest himself.
　　They kicked off their slippers, chalked their feet, then Phil assisted hiscompanion to the back of the horse.
　　The band struck up a lively tune, the ringmaster cracked his whip, andPhil leaped to the back of the ring horse beside Dimples.
　　"We are off," smiled the lad.
　　"I hope not," laughed the woman happily.
　　Further conversation for the moment was interrupted, for the timehad arrived to begin their work in earnest. The two threw themselvesinto a series of graceful positions, neither very difficult nor very dangerous,but to Mr. Sparling, who was watching their performance from a seatdirectly opposite to them, their work was more attractive than anything ofthe kind he ever had seen.
　　The next time they started in, after the brief intermission, Phil andDimples varied their performance by leaping from the ring horse, then,taking a running start, jumping to the back of the galloping animal. Onlyonce did Phil miss, and Dimples not at all. She greeted his failure with amerry laugh that goaded the lad to renewed efforts.
　　"Have you forgotten how to jump?" teased Dimples.
　　"I'll show you whether I have or not. Keep him up close to the ringcurb and stand back as far as you can.""What are you going to do?" she questioned suspiciously.
　　"Going to prove to you that I have not forgotten how to jump,"answered Phil, with determination.
　　"Please don't do anything foolish," warned the dainty rider. "It is tooearly in the season to break your neck. Just think what you would misswere you to do so this early--think what I should miss. Come up hereand be sensible--that's a good boy."The ringmaster paid no attention to their chatter, which was in tonestoo low for the audience to catch.
　　Phil placed the little jumping board in place, upon which the ridersstep just as they are leaping to the back of the ring horses. Then the ladbacked up.
　　"Keep him up lively," he said to the ringmaster.
　　All at once the lad started on a brisk run across the sawdust arena.
　　"Yip!" encouraged Dimples.
　　"Yip! Yip!" answered Phil.
　　The lad leaped up into the air just as if he had been hurled there onsprings. As he leaped his legs were curled up under him, and his workingmate saw that he was not going to land on the back of the horse at all.
　　Still she dared not speak to him, now. She knew that to attract Phil'sattention at that moment might mean a bad fall for him, for a performermust have his mind on his work when attempting any dangerous feat.
　　To the surprise of everyone who witnessed the act, Phil Forrest clearedthe back of the ring horse, fairly flying past the astonished eyes of LittleDimples.
　　He landed lightly well outside of the ring curbing, on the soft turf.
　　The audience broke out into a roar of applause and a ripple of handclapping ran over the arena from the appreciative performers. Theywholly forgot themselves in their surprise and approval of the feat.
　　"Wonderful!" breathed Mr. James Sparling. "That boy is worth athousand dollars a week to any show.""Have I forgotten how to jump?" demanded the Circus Boy exultingly,as the ring horse slowed down to a walk, Phil stepping along by the side ofit looking up into the eyes of Little Dimples.
　　"Indeed you have not. It was wonderful. Don't you ever dare try itagain, however. Why, suppose you had dropped on an iron tent stake?
　　You would have at least been disabled for life.""I presume I should have been. I happened to know there were nostakes where I landed. I made sure of that before I made the leap.""You are a wise boy, even if an imprudent one. We try the shoulderstand next, do we not?""Yes.""I haven't the routine in my mind yet. Don't you dare let me fall.""Supposing we save the shoulder stand until the last. Let's do thesomersault first," suggested Phil.
　　"Very well; I don't care."The music started and the little couple began their work again.
　　Dimples sprang up to the hip of the Circus Boy, leaning far out to oneside, holding to one of Phil's hands, a very pretty though not perilous featfor a sure-footed ride.
　　This they varied by throwing themselves into several different poses.
　　"Now the turn," breathed Phil.
　　He deftly lifted the little woman down to the horse just in front ofhimself. Having done so, Phil grasped Dimples firmly about the waistwith his strong, muscular young hands.
　　"If you drop me I'll never speak to you again.""I shall not drop you. You know the cue?""Yes."The lad nodded to the ringmaster, indicating that the latter was to urgethe horse on to a faster gallop.
　　"Now what are those two children going to do?" wondered the ownerof the show. "One is as daring as the other. It's a wonder they havegone along without knocking themselves out. I believe they are going todo a turn."That was exactly what they were preparing. "Now," said Philsharply.
　　The pair rose from the back of the ring horse as one person. Theyleaped gracefully and deliberately into the air, doubled their legs underthem and performed one of the most graceful somersaults that had everbeen seen in the Sparling shows, landing lightly and surely on the resinedback of the old ring horse.
　　Dimples sat down, and Phil, dropping lightly to the ground, threw akiss to the audience.
　　The spectators, fully appreciating what had been done, went fairlywild in their enthusiasm.
　　Mr. Sparling was no less so. In his excitement he forgot time andplace and ran into the ring, where he threw an arm about Phil Forrest,giving him a fatherly hug.
　　Dimples pouted prettily.
　　"That's what I call partiality," she complained.
　　Mr. Sparling promptly lifted her from the back of her horse, andstood the blushing little performer on the sawdust by the side of Phil.
　　How the spectators did applaud, many standing up in their seatswaving hats and handkerchiefs in their excitement and enthusiasm!
　　Mr. Sparling was always doing these little, intensely human things,not with any idea of winning applause, but out of sheer big-heartedness.
　　They did much toward spreading the reputation of the Sparling show andpopularizing it as well.
　　"Ladies and gentlemen," announced the showman when quiet had oncemore been restored, "you will pardon me for interrupting the performance,but as the owner of the show I want to say a few words on behalf of mystar performers, Little Dimples and Master Phil Forrest."The audience interrupted him with a cheer.
　　"The act which you have just witnessed is as great a surprise to me asit could possibly have been to you. It is the first time these twoperformers ever attempted it in public. I might say, also, that it is the firsttime to my own knowledge that any performers in the world eversucceeded in getting away with a feat of that sort. I thank you for yourapproval. The performance will now proceed."After the applause which this little speech elicited had died away theband once more began to play.
　　Phil and Dimples commenced a series of acts, jumping from and to theback of the horse whose speed was increased for the purpose.
　　In the next rest Dimples called the attention of her associate to theclown Diaz, who was not far from them at the moment.
　　Dimples had been in the show business so long that her intuition hadbecome very keen. Nothing of consequence happened under the big top,or beneath the low-roofed dressing tents, that she did not know of, or atleast surmise. Especially keen was she in all matters relating to PhilForrest and Teddy Tucker, and her interest had in many instances served tosave the lads from unpleasant consequence.
　　"I don't like that fellow, Phil," Dimples remarked, referring to Diaz.
　　"Why not?""I think he is a bad man.""I hope not. He is impulsive and--""Revengeful and ugly," finished Dimples.
　　"As I said, he is impulsive, like all of his race.""What has been going on with you lately, Phil?""I don't understand what you mean?""Oh, yes, you do.""You mean with regard to Diaz?""That's what I mean. Have you had any trouble?""We had a slight disagreement," admitted the lad.
　　"Tell me about it.""Wait! There goes the music."The ringmaster's whip cracked its warning and the gray horse started ata slow gallop. Phil was up beside his companion with agility and grace.
　　The first round or two they stood poised on the horse, while Phil relatedbriefly what had taken place between himself and Diaz.
　　"Come, aren't you two going to get to work?" demanded theringmaster.
　　"You attend to your own work. We'll look out for ours," snappedDimples.
　　"Yes, and if you think you can do better just come up and try," addedPhil, with a good-natured laugh. "Up, Dimples!"He threw her lightly to his shoulders, on which the woman stoodpoised, making as graceful and pretty a picture as had ever been seen in acircus ring. Fragile as she was, it seemed as if Phil were all too slenderto support her weight.
　　The act brought a whirlwind of applause.
　　"You look out for him, Phil. I--""Jump, Dimples!"The ring horse had suddenly stumbled, its nose plowing up thesawdust in a cloud.
　　Phil, with rare presence of mind, lifted the feet from his shoulders andhurled the girl far from him.
　　"Land on your feet!" he shouted, then Phil plunged off, head first.
Chapter 13 A Narrow Escape
Thanks to Phil's presence of mind, Dimples had landed lightly on herfeet well outside the ring curbing. Had the lad held to her ankles even asecond too long the result must have been serious, if not fatal, for Dimpleswould have been hurled to the ground head first.
　　As it was, Phil gave her a lift, enabling her to double and "ball," acircus term meaning to curl one's feet up under the body, then straightenthem as needed to give the body balance either in turning a somersault orin falling.
　　In doing so, however, Phil had had no thought for his own safety. Heplunged forward over the head of the ring horse, striking the ground on hishead and face.
　　The force of his fall had been broken somewhat by his quicklythrowing out his hands in front of him and relaxing the muscles of hisbody. Circus performers soon learn how to fall--how to make the best ofevery situation with which they are confronted. Despite this, his fall hadbeen a severe and dangerous one.
　　"There, he has done it! I knew he would," cried Mr. Sparling,rushing to the ring. Quick as he was, Dimples was ahead of him. Sheleaped the ring curbing and dropped down beside him, not caring for thedust and the dirt that soiled her pretty costume.
　　"Phil! Phil!" she cried.
　　Phil did not answer at the moment.
　　"Is he hurt--is he killed?" demanded Mr. Sparling excitedly.
　　"Of course he is hurt. Can't you see he is?" answered Dimples testily.
　　She turned the boy over and looked into his face. The dirt was soground into the handsome, boyish face as to make it scarcelyrecognizable.
　　"Lift him up. Get some of the attendants to carry him back!"commanded the woman impatiently.
　　"No, no!" protested Phil in a muffled voice, for his mouth was full ofsawdust and dirt. "I'm all right. Don't worry about me.""He's all right," repeated the showman. "I'll help you up, Phil."Phil, like the plucky performer that he was, declined their offers ofassistance and struggled to his feet. He was dizzy and staggered a little,but after a moment succeeded in overmastering his inclination to faint.
　　A fleck of blood on his lips showed through makeup and sawdust.
　　"I'm all right. Don't worry about me," he said, with a forced smile.
　　Dimples sought to brush the dirt from his face with her handkerchief,but he put her aside gently, and, with a low bow, threw a kiss to theaudience.
　　Their relief was expressed in a roar of applause.
　　Phil staggered over to where the ring horse still lay near the center ofthe ring and knelt down beside it, examining the leg that was doubled upunder the animal.
　　The ringmaster cracked his whip lash as a signal for the animal to getup, but the faithful old horse, despite its efforts to rise, was unable to doso.
　　"What is the matter with him?" demanded Mr. Sparling.
　　"Jim has broken a leg, I think," answered Phil sadly. "Too bad, toobad!"The lad patted the head of the horse and ran his fingers through thegrey mane. Tears stood in Phil Forrest's eyes, for he had ridden thishorse and won most of his triumphs on its resined back during the pastthree years.
　　"Dimples, I guess we have ridden Jim for the last time," said Phil in alow voice. "Hadn't you better start the other acts, Mr. Sparling. Theaudience will become uneasy.""Yes, yes," answered the showman, waving his hand to the band, asignal that they were to play and the show to go on as usual. "Are yousure, Phil--sure Jim has not merely strained the leg?""I am sure. He never will perform again."Dimples brushed a hand across her eyes.
　　"I shall cry when I get back to my dressing tent. I know I shall," shesaid, with a tremor in her voice that she strove to control.
　　Then Dimples smiled bravely, waving a hand at the audience, thoughher heart was sad.
　　"What had we better do with him, Phil?""We can do nothing at present--not until the show is ended. Then,there is only one thing to do.""You mean he will have to be--""Yes, Dimples, he will have to be shot," answered Phil.
　　"But the audience?""Have a couple of attendants come in here and pretend to be workingover Jim. That will make the audience think the animal's foot is injuredrather than fatally hurt," suggested Phil Forrest.
　　"A good idea," said Mr. Sparling, giving the necessary orders.
　　Tell them not to disturb the spot, not trample it down.
　　"Why?" questioned the showman in surprise.
　　"I'll tell you later. I have my own reasons."Phil motioned to Teddy to approach.
　　"Sit down here in the ring and watch the horse and the men aroundhim," directed the Circus Boy. "I'll tell you why later."The show went on with a snap and dash. Meanwhile, Phil, hisclothes torn, his face grimy with dirt, started down the concourse towardthe pad room, hand in hand with Little Dimples.
　　Their progress was a triumphal one so far as the audience wasconcerned, for the people cheered them all the way and until the slenderriders had disappeared behind the crimson curtain just beyond thebandstand.
　　Phil quietly washed the dirt from his face, and pulling on his streetclothes over his ring costume, started to reenter the arena.
　　At that moment Mr. Sparling came hurrying in. The two met in thepad room.
　　"Phil, how did that accident happen?" demanded the showman.
　　"You saw it, did you not, Mr. Sparling?""Yes. But I was unable to understand how it occurred.""That is exactly what is bothering me," answered the lad, with apeculiar smile that the owner of the show was not slow to catch.
　　"You suspect something?""I suspect I got a bump that I shan't forget soon," laughed the CircusBoy. "It is a wonder I did not break my neck.""You undoubtedly saved Dimples' life at the risk of your own. Youare the pluckiest lad--no, I'll say the pluckiest _man_ I have ever known.""Don't make me blush, Mr. Sparling.""Nevertheless, I wish you wouldn't take chances on that act again.
　　Give the audience the same old act and they will be satisfied with that.""Didn't you like the act?""Like it?""Yes.""It was the finest exhibition of its kind that I ever saw. I hopeneither the Ringlings, nor Barnum and Bailey, nor any of the big showsget a peep at that act.""Why?""Because were they to do so I would be sure to lose my little starperformers right in the middle of the season," laughed the owner.
　　"Oh, I hardly think so. I do not wish to leave this show. Had it notbeen for you I should still be doing chores for my board and clothes backin Edmeston. Now wouldn't that be fine?""Very," grinned the showman.
　　"Whatever I have accomplished I have you to thank for.""You mean you owe to your own brightness and cleverness. No, Phil,you are a boy who would have succeeded anywhere. They can't keepyou down--no, not even were they to sit on you.""If Fat Marie, with her five hundred and odd pounds, were to sit onme, I rather think I would be kept down," answered the Circus Boy, with ahearty laugh in which Mr. Sparling joined uproariously.
　　"What is Teddy doing out in the ring?""I left him there to keep an eye on the injured horse.""Why, Phil?""Until I could get back and make an examination.""Very well; I want to see you after you have done so.""I will look you up."With that Phil hurried out into the arena. None of the spectatorsappeared to recognize the lad in his street clothes. Besides, he tried toavoid observation. He might have been one of the spectators, except thathe picked his way, among the ropes and properties down through thecenter, where the public were not allowed to go.
　　"The rest of you may go," said Phil, reaching the ring where Jim laybreathing heavily. "Thank you for easing off old Jim. I know heappreciates it."Jim looked up pleadingly as Phil bent over him, patting the animal onhis splendid old gray head.
　　The attendants went about their duties.
　　"How'd this happen, Phil?" questioned Teddy.
　　"I fell off; that's what happened.""Yes, I know you did, but there's more to it. I wonder if it's gotanything to do with the loss of my egg?""I guess not.""You guess not? Well, I know something, Phil.""I should hope you do.""I mean about this accident."Phil gazed at his companion keenly.
　　"What do you know?""Look here," said Teddy, pointing to a depression in the sawdust arena.
　　Phil bent over, examining the spot closely. When he rose, his lipswere tightly compressed and his face was pale.
　　"Don't mention this to anyone, Teddy. Promise me?"" 'Course I won't tell. Why should I? But I found out about it,didn't I?""Yes; at least you have made a pretty good start in that direction. Ishall have to tell Mr. Sparling. It would not be right to keep thisinformation from him.""N-n-o-o. Then maybe he'll organize a posse to hunt for my egg.""Oh, hang your old egg!"The Roman chariot races were on, the rattle of the wheels, the shoutsof the drivers drowning the voices of the two boys.
　　"Teddy, you'll have to get back and change your clothes. Theperformance is about over. That makes me think. I have on my ringclothes under this suit and I must hurry back to my bath and my change."The performance closed and the rattle and bang of tearing down thebig white city had begun. The boys were engaged in packing their trunksnow, as were most of their fellow performers.
　　"What's that?" demanded Teddy, straightening up suddenly.
　　"Somebody fired a shot," answered another performer.
　　Phil knew what it meant.
　　A bullet had ended the sufferings of the faithful old ring horse offunder the big top. The Circus Boy turned away, with a blinding mist inhis eyes.
　　"Poor old Jim!" he groaned.
　　Off under the women's dressing tent another pair of ears had heard andunderstood, and Little Dimples, burying her head in her hands wept softly.
　　"Poor old Jim!" she, too, murmured.
Chapter 14 The Pilot Gets A Surprise
The happiness of the day had been marred by the accident, but, liketrue circus men, all hands took the disaster in the matter-of-fact mannercharacteristic of their kind.
　　The show people, in couples and singly, took their way to the river,where they boarded the boats. Already wagons were rumbling down onthe docks and cages were being quickly shunted into position for theirjourney down the river that night.
　　Everything moved with as much method as if the show had beentraveling in this way from the beginning of the season.
　　The performers were enjoying the novel experience of river travelingtoo thoroughly to turn into their berths early. A cold lunch had beenspread in the main cabins of the "Marie" and the "River Queen" for theperformers, while from the cook tent, baskets had been prepared and sentin for the use of the laborers after they had completed their night's workand finished loading the show.
　　All this was appreciated, and it was a jolly company that lined thetables in the two larger boats. Leather upholstered seats were built intothe sides of the cabin, and with mouths and hands full, the circus peoplesoon took possession of the seats, where they ate and chatted noisily.
　　"Funny thing about Jim," said one of the performers. "What do yousuppose made him fall, Mr. Miaco?""I don't know. Probably for the same reason that anyone falls.""What is that?""Stumbled over something, I guess.""Hey, Teddy, what ailed the ring horse?" called a voice as the CircusBoy sauntered in and espying the tables made a dive for them.
　　"I guess he was hungry," mumbled Teddy, his mouth full of hamsandwich.
　　"Hungry?""Yes.""What makes you think that?"" 'Cause he bit the dust."A general groan was heard in the cabin.
　　"Throw him overboard!""I know a better way to punish him for that ghastly joke.""How?""Take the food away from him, tie him up and make him watch useat," was the answer.
　　A shout of laughter greeted the proposition.
　　The pilot of the "Marie," a heavily bearded man named Cummings,broke out in a loud guffaw.
　　All eyes were turned upon him.
　　"I reckon I kin tie him up if you says the word," he volunteered.
　　"All right; tie him up," shouted the performers, scenting fun.
　　Teddy eyed the pilot out of the corners of his eyes and placidlymunched his sandwich. The pilot, in the meantime, had stepped to therear end of the cabin, where, from a box of life-preservers he took a pieceof Manila rope.
　　"I believe he is going to do it," said a clown, nudging his companion.
　　"You mean he is going to try it," answered the other. "Watch forsome fun. He thinks Teddy is an easy mark.""He will be in this case. That fellow, Cummings, is hard as a railfence. He could handle two of Teddy."In the meantime Tucker had strolled to the table, from which he took alarge sandwich, buttered it well, then returned to his seat, not appearing toobserve the pilot's movements at all.
　　As he sat down the lad was observed to open the sandwich, removingthe thin slice of ham and stowing the latter in his coat pocket. Then hesat thoughtfully contemplating the two pieces of buttered bread as if tryingto decide whether or not he should eat them.
　　"Get up, kiddie," said Cummings, grasping the boy by the shoulder.
　　"Get up and take your punishment like a little dear."Teddy got up, carelessly, indifferently, while the pilot stretched therope to its full length.
　　The boy saw that he was in earnest.
　　Smack!
　　Quick as a flash Teddy had plastered one half of the sandwich,buttered side in, right over the eyes of Cummings.
　　Smack!
　　The second half of the sandwich landed neatly over his mouth, pressedhome by a firm fist.
　　Cummings could not speak, neither could he see. At that momenthe was perhaps the most surprised man on the Mississippi River. At leasthe appeared to be, for he stood still. He stood still just a few seconds toolong.
　　Teddy had seized the rope. With it he made a quick twist about thebody of the pilot, taking two turns, then drawing the rope tight and tying it,thus pinioning the hands and arms of the pilot to his sides.
　　"Yip-yeow!" howled Teddy.
　　The show people shrieked with delight.
　　"You'll tie up a Circus Boy, will you?" jeered Teddy. "You'll have togrow some first. No Rube with a bunch of whiskers on his face like thatever lived who could tie up a real circus man."Teddy had drawn nearer to impress his words upon the pilot, when allof a sudden the man's hands gripped the lad. The boy never had felt quiteso strong a grip on his body. Cummings had not handled a pilot wheel onthe Mississippi for thirty years without acquiring some strength in handsand arms.
　　Teddy, failing to pull away, grappled with his antagonist, all in thebest of humor, though his face bore its usual solemn expression.
　　"Gangway," cried Teddy humorously. "I'm going to give him a bathin the river."Then began a lively scrimmage. Back and forth the combatantsstruggled across the cabin floor, the growls of the pilot drowned in theshouts and jeers of the performers.
　　All at once, Teddy tripped his antagonist and the two went down into aheap, rolling under the main table on which the lunch had been spread.
　　"Look out for the table!" warned a voice.
　　"Sit on it, some of you fellows, and hold it down!"The suggestion came too late. The table suddenly rose into the air,landing upside down with a crash, at one side of the cabin. A momentmore and the two combatants were wrestling on roast beef and hamsandwiches, potato salad and various other foods.
　　"I guess this has gone about far enough," decided Mr. Miaco, thehead clown. "We'll have a fight on our hands, first thing we know. IfTeddy really gets angry you'll think the 'Sweet Marie' is in the midst of acyclone.""The 'Fat Marie,' you mean," corrected a voice.
　　With the assistance of two others Miaco succeeded in separating thecombatants, after which he untied the rope, releasing the pilot.
　　Teddy was grinning broadly, but Cummings was not. The latter wasglowering angrily at his little antagonist.
　　"Shake?" asked Teddy, extending a hand.
　　"No, I'm blest if I will! I'll not shake hands with anybody who hasinsulted me by buttering my face," growled the pilot.
　　"You'll be better bred if you are well buttered," suggested Teddy.
　　"Oh, help!" moaned The Fattest Woman on Earth.
　　"Put him out! Put him out!" howled several voices in chorus.
　　"Yes, that's the thing! We can stand for some things some of the time,but we won't stand for everything all of the time," added a clown wisely.
　　Half a dozen performers picked Teddy up bodily, bore him to one ofthe open windows and dumped him out on the deck.
　　"Here, what's all this commotion about?" commanded Phil, who, atthat moment, came from his cabin to the deck.
　　"They threw me out," wailed Teddy.
　　"What for?""I made a pun.""Tell it to me."Teddy in short, jerky sentences, related what had been done and said.
　　Phil leaned against the rail and shouted.
　　"I--I don't blame them," he gasped between laughs. "It is a wonderthey did not throw you overboard.""They had better not try it.""But what about the pilot--what happened to him?""May--maybe they have put him out, too.""You have a way of getting into trouble, Teddy. Mr. Cummings willlove you for what you have done to him, I can well imagine.""About as much as I love him, I guess. He got too bold, Phil. Hehad to have a lesson and Teddy Tucker was the boy who had to teach it tohim. Say, go in and gather me a sandwich out of the wreck, will you?""Not I. Go and get your own sandwich. I'm going to see Mr.
　　Sparling in his cabin. He has sent for me."Teddy sat out on deck while the others were picking up the table, thedishes and the ruined food. It would not do for Mr. Sparling to come inand see how they had wasted the food he had had prepared for them. Theprobabilities were that they would get no more, were he to do so. Teddywatched the proceedings narrowly from the safe vantage point of the deck.
　　In the meantime Phil had gone to Mr. Sparling's cabin, where theshowman was checking up the day's receipts.
　　"A pretty good day, Phil," smiled Mr. Sparling.
　　"I am glad to hear that, sir.""Two thousand dollars in the clear, as the result of our twoperformances today. Do you know of any other business that would payas much for the amount invested, eh, Phil?""I do not, sir.""You see, it is a pretty good business to be in after all, provided it isrun on business principles, at the same time treating one's employees likehuman beings.""Yes, sir.""How would you like to have an interest in a show?""I am going to, someday. It may be a long time yet before I haveearned money enough, but I shall if I live," said the Circus Boy quietly butwith determination.
　　"So you shall. I intend to have a talk with you on this subject, one ofthese days. What I wanted to talk with you about is Jim's loss. I amglad it wasn't your ring horse, Phil. Have you anything to say about theanimal breaking his leg?""I have.""Out with it.""Somebody is to blame for that accident.""How?""Someone planned that accident.""Explain!""Teddy and myself examined the ring, that is, Teddy already had doneso before I returned, and he discovered something--we both decided whatmust have happened.""Yes," urged the showman as Phil paused.
　　"A round hole about a foot deep had been dug in the ring. This hadbeen covered with a shingle and the sawdust sprinkled over to hide theshingle. It was a deliberate attempt to do someone an injury."Mr. Sparling eyed him questioningly.
　　"Are you sure?""As sure as I can be. Jim didn't happen to step on the shingle untilwe were doing the pyramid, then of course something happened. It is awonder that neither Little Dimples nor myself was injured.""Phil, we simply must find out who is responsible for this dastardlywork.""Yes, sir.""And when we do--when we do--""What then, Mr. Sparling!"The showman was opening and closing his fingers nervously.
　　"Don't ask me," he replied in a low, tense voice. "I don't want to seethe man. I should do something I would be sorry for all the rest of mylife. Good night, Phil."Phil Forrest left the cabin and strode thoughtfully away to his ownroom, where he was soon in bed. Phil, however, did not sleep very wellthat night.
Chapter 15 An Unwelcome Visitor
The boats of the Sparling fleet had been moving steadily downstreamfor several hours, their passengers, in the majority of instances, soundasleep, lulled by the gentle motion and the far away "spat, spat, spat," ofthe industrious paddle wheel at the stern of each craft.
　　Teddy had prudently kept away from the main cabin for the rest ofthe evening; when Phil turned in, Teddy was sleeping sweetly. His activepart in the affair in the cabin had not caused him any loss of sleep.
　　With the pilot, Cummings, however, matters had been different. Mr.
　　Cummings had been steadily at the wheel of the "Marie" since the boatshad sailed shortly after one o'clock in the morning.
　　The pilot's temper had suffered as the result of his experience in thecabin, and the jeers aud laughter of the circus people had not added to hispeace of mind. At intervals he would break out into a tirade of invectiveand threats against Teddy Tucker, who had so humiliated him.
　　"I'll get even with that little monkey-face! They ought to put him inthe monkey cage where he belongs," growled the pilot, giving the wheel athree-quarter turn to keep the boat from driving her prow into the bank, forwhich he had been steering to avoid a hidden sand bar.
　　"I'll tell the manager tomorrow, that if he doesn't keep that boy awayfrom me, I'll take the matter into my own hands and give that kid atrouncing that will last him till we get to New Orleans."The darkness of the night, just before the dawn, hung over the broadriver. Doors and windows of the pilot house were thrown open so thatthe wheelman might get a clear view on all sides.
　　All at once Cummings seemed to feel some presence near him. Hethought he caught the sound of a footfall on the deck. To make sure heleft the wheel for a few seconds, peering out along the deck, on both sidesof the pilot house.
　　He saw no one. The air was filled with a black pall of smoke fromthe "Marie's" funnel, the smoke settling over the boat, wholly envelopingher from her stack to the stern paddle wheel.
　　"Huh!" grunted the pilot, returning to his duties.
　　Yet his ears had not deceived him. Something was near him, astrange shape, the like of which never had been seen on the deck of the"Fat Marie", in all her long service on the Mississippi.
　　"If that fool boy comes nosing around here I'll throw him overboard-that'swhat I'll do," threatened Cummings. "I'll show him he can't foolwith the pilot of the finest steamboat of the old line. I--"The pilot suddenly checked himself and peered out to starboard.
　　"Wha--what?" he gasped.
　　Something darkened the doorway. What he now saw was a strange,grotesque shape that looked like a shadow itself in the uncertain light ofthe early morning.
　　"Get out of here!" bellowed the pilot, the cold chills running up anddown his spine.
　　The most frightful sound that his ears had ever heard, broke suddenlyon the quiet of the Mississippi night.
　　"It's the lion escaped!"Cummings grabbed a stout oak stick that lay at hand--the stick thatnow and then, when battling with a stiff current, he used to insertbetween the spokes of the steering wheel to give him greater leverage.
　　With a yell he brought the stick down on the head of the strangebeast. The roar or bray of the animal stopped suddenly.
　　Whack! came the echo from the club.
　　Cummings sprang back. He slammed the pilot-house door in the faceof the beast, and closed the windows with a bang that shook the pilothouse. In his excitement the pilot rang in a signal to the engineer for fullspeed astern.
　　About that time something else occurred.
　　With a terrific crash one of the windows of the pilot house wasshattered, pieces of glass showering in upon the pilot like a sudden stormof hail.
　　Crash!
　　Another window fell in a shower about him. He tried to get the dooron the opposite side of the pilot house open, but locked it instead anddropped the key on the floor.
　　All this time the "Fat Marie's" paddle wheel was backing water and thecraft, now swung almost broadside to the stream, was working her wayover toward the Iowa shore.
　　Bang!
　　A section of the pilot-house door fell shattering on the inside, and whatsounded like a volley of musketry, rattled against the harder woodwork ofthe pilot house itself.
　　Frightened almost out of all sense, Cummings began groping excitedlyfor his revolver. At last he found it, more by accident than through anymethodical search for it.
　　The pilot began to shoot. Some of his bullets went through the roof,others through the broken out windows, while a couple landed in the door.
　　At last the half-crazed Cummings was snapping the hammer onempty chambers. He had emptied his revolver without hitting anythingmore than wood and water.
　　The fusillade from the outside still continued.
　　By this time the din had begun to arouse the passengers on the boat.
　　Phil Forrest was the first to spring up. He shook Teddy by the shoulder,but, being unable to awaken his companion, jerked the boy out of bed andlet him drop on the floor.
　　"Get a net! What's the matter down there!" yelled Teddy. "Hey, hey,did the mule kick me? Oh, that you Phil? What's the row--what hashappened?""I don't know. Come on out. Something has gone wrong. Hearthose shots?""Wow! Trouble! That's me! I knew I couldn't dream about angelswithout something breaking loose."Phil had thrown the door open and bounded out to the deck. Just ashe did so the pilot leaped from the front window of the pilot house,climbed over the rail and dropped to the deck below. The volleying,the thunderous blows still continued.
　　A loud bray attracted their attention to the other side of the boat.
　　"What's that?" demanded Phil, starting off in that direction.
　　"It's January! It's January!" howled Teddy Tucker. "I would knowthat sweet voice if I heard it in the jungles of Africa. Where is he?""Over here somewhere. Come on. I can't imagine what hashappened.""The animals have escaped. There's a lion on the hurricane deck!"they heard a voice below shout in terrified tones.
　　"Do you think that's it?" called Phil.
　　"Lion, nothing! Didn't I tell you I knew that voice? There he isnow. See him hand out the hoofs at the pilot house. He must have agrudge against Cummings. I know. He's paying the fellow back fortrying to tie me up.""But--but, how did he ever get up here?""Go it, January! Kick the daylights out of him! I'll give you awhole peck of sugar if you kick the house into the river, pilot and all.""Whoa! Whoa, January!" shouted Phil.
　　The donkey, for it was January himself, and not a savage beast thatwas acting the part of a battering ram and rapidly demolishing the pilothouse, paused for a second; then, moving to a new position, he beganonce more hammering at the structure.
　　"How did he ever get up here, Teddy?""I don't know. I know I am glad he did, that's all. Let him kick.""I'm going to try to catch him.""Keep away, Phil. He'll have you in the river. He has a fit. Waittill he comes out of it.""Why, the boat is moving backwards," cried Phil.
　　"No!""Yes, it is.""Maybe January has kicked the machinery out of gear."The circus people were by this time on deck, and, like Teddy and Phil,many of them were in their pajamas. They had heard the cry, "theanimals have escaped," and many of the people were gazingapprehensively about.
　　"It's all right," shouted Teddy. "It is only January, taking his morningexercise."About that time Phil, who had run around to the other side of the pilothouse, discovered that it was empty. There was no pilot there.
　　Understanding came to him instantly. January had either kicked orfrightened Cummings out.
　　"The boat is running wild!" he called. "Find the pilot or we shall beon the shore before we know it."Phil did not wait for them to find the pilot. Instead, he climbed inthrough one of the broken windows and grasped the wheel.
　　"I've got to stop this going astern first of all," he decided.
　　He could see the banks now, and they seemed perilously near in thefaint morning light. The other boats of the fleet were steaming up inanswer to the signals of distress that Cummings had blown in hisexcitement.
　　"What is it? Are you sinking?" called a voice through a megaphonefrom the deck of the "River Queen.""No, we are all right," answered Phil, leaning out of the window.
　　"You'll be high and dry on the Iowa shore if you don't watch sharp.
　　Where are you going?""Don't know. Keep out of the way or we're liable to run you down."Phil grabbed a bell pull and gave it a violent jerk. The enginesstopped suddenly, to the Circus Boy's great delight. January had ceasedhis bombardment and now stood with head thrust though one of thebroken windows, gazing in inquiringly at Phil Forrest.
　　"If one bell stopped the engine, another bell should be the signal to goahead," reasoned the lad, giving the bell pull two quick jerks. He wasright. The machinery started and he could hear the big paddle wheelbeating the river into a froth.
　　The lower deck was in an uproar. Men were shouting and runningabout, trying to discover what animals had escaped, as the pilot insistedthat the hurricane deck was alive with them.
　　"Get that pilot up here, if you have to drag him. I don't know wherethe channel is, and I am liable to put the whole outfit aground anyminute," shouted Phil Forrest. "Teddy, never mind that idiotic donkey.
　　We're in a fix. Get downstairs, at one jump, and see that the pilot isbrought up here lively.""I'll fetch him. You watch me," answered the irrepressible Teddy,starting off on a run.
　　January had all at once grown very meek. He stood gazingthoughtfully off over the river.
　　"What is the trouble here?" roared Mr. Sparling dashing up to the pilothouse at that moment.
　　"That is exactly what I have been trying to find out," answered theCircus Boy.
　　"What, _Phil?_""Yes, it's Phil.""What are you doing in there?""Steering the boat.""Piloting the--where is the pilot?""Somewhere below. I have sent Teddy after him. You see, Januarywas trying to kick the pilot house off the boat and into the river. Thepilot, thinking the animals had escaped, fled. When I came up this craftwas traveling astern and January was making a sieve of this little house.
　　I have got the 'Marie' going forward, but I may run her aground if hedoesn't come along pretty soon."Mr. Sparling reached the companionway in two bounds, and, leapingto the lower deck, caught the pilot by the coat collar, shaking off the twocircus men who had hold of Cummings.
　　"You get up to that pilot house or you'll be in the worst fix in yourwhole river career." Mr. Sparling accompanied the words with a violentpush that sent the pilot headlong toward the stairway. But the showmanwas by the fellow's side by the time he had gotten to his feet, and beganassisting him up the companionway, while Teddy Tucker followed,prodding the pilot in the back with a clenched fist.
　　Into the pilot house they hurled the man, Cummings.
　　"Now, you steer! If it had not been for that boy we might have lostour whole equipment. I don't care anything about your old boat, but I'mblest if I am going to let a fool pilot wreck us--a pilot who is afraid of adonkey.""I'll quit this outfit tomorrow," growled Cummings. "I kin pilotsteamers, but I can't fight a menagerie and a pack of boys with the veryOld Nick in them. Get away from that wheel!" he commanded, thrustingPhil aside.
　　Mr. Sparling had him by the collar once more.
　　"You do that again, and I'll take it out of you right here!" declared theshowman savagely.
　　"I'll bet he's the fellow who stole my egg," declared Teddy, eyeing thepilot sternly.
Chapter 16 Betrayed By A Sneeze
"How did that beast get up here?" demanded Mr. Sparling.
　　"Who, Cummings?" asked Teddy innocently.
　　"No, no! The donkey.""Oh! Maybe he came up through the smoke stack. If you will lookat it you may find donkey tracks on the inside of the stack.""That will do, that will do, young man."It was found upon investigation that January had gnawed his halteruntil only a thin strand held it together, which was easy for the donkey tobreak. Then he began an investigation of the boat, ending by hisclimbing the broad staircase and frightening the pilot.
　　Next morning the pilot house looked as though it had been through ashipwreck. The whole craft, in fact the entire fleet, was laughing at theexpense of Cummings, who now kept to himself, studiously avoiding theother people. January was tied up with a dog chain after that, and wasnot heard from again during any trip of that season; that is, beyond hisregular acts in the sawdust arena.
　　The next day Phil Forrest began his investigation in earnest. Heknew that Mr. Sparling looked to him to discover who had caused so muchtrouble in the show, besides which, Phil took a personal interest because ofthe attempt that had been made on the lives of Little Dimples and himself.
　　Teddy suggested that he go through the pilot's belongings, expressingthe firm belief that they would find the ostrich egg were they to do so.
　　Phil consulted Little Dimples, that afternoon, as to her opinion of theoccurrences of the past week, but the star bareback rider could shed nolight on them, beyond the fact that certain people with whom Phil had haddifficulties might bear watching.
　　"That's what I think," answered the Circus Boy. "I do not like toaccuse anyone unjustly, but I have these suspicions of the Spanish clown.""Have you mentioned your suspicion to Mr. Sparling, Phil?""No.""Do you intend to do so?""Not unless I find some facts to support my suspicion.""You will get to the bottom of the mystery, I am sure," smiled thewoman.
　　"I am not so sure. Why do you think so?""Because you are one of the cleverest boys I ever knew, that's why.
　　should hate to have you on my track if I were guilty of any particularcrime that you were trying to run down. I should expect to land in jail,and I think I should come straight to you and give myself up," added thewoman with a merry laugh.
　　"I wish I were all that you think I am, Dimples.""You are. You saved my life again yesterday. I'm going to payyou back, however. Someday, when you fall overboard, Little Dimples isgoing to jump right in and rescue you--haul you out by the hair of yourhead--""You can't, it is cut too short.""Then I will pull you out by an ear.""I shall make it my business to fall in, then, at the first opportunity,"laughed Phil. "It would be worthwhile."Dimples gave him a playful tap.
　　"You can turn a compliment as well as you can do a turn in the ring,can't you Phil Forrest?"Despite their narrow escape from serious accident, Phil and Dimpleswent through their double act in the ring that day and evening with perfectconfidence. Previous to going on, Phil had had a ring attendant go overthe sawdust circle on his hands and knees, making a careful examinationof it, to be sure that the ring had not been tampered with.
　　>From that time on until the act went on, the ring was watched, thoughPhil did not believe the miscreant would attempt to lay another trap forhim so soon. Still, he took nothing for granted.
　　That night after the performance, the air being warm and balmy, theCircus Boy strolled out on the lot, sitting down on a little knoll to thinkmatters over. There was plenty of time, for the boat would not leave fortwo or three hours, and Phil wanted to be alone.
　　Lights were twinkling on the lot like fireflies. There was shoutingand singing, but little of this conveyed itself to Phil, for his mind was onother things.
　　All at once he pricked up his ears. He caught the sound of runningfootsteps.
　　"Someone is coming this way," he muttered. "I wonder what thatmeans? Surely none of the circus people would come here. Theywould go around by the road."The lad concealed himself behind the knoll, peering over the top of it.
　　He resolved not to show himself until he had discovered the identity of thenewcomers.
　　They proved to be two men who halted a short distance beyond him,and began to converse in guarded tones. It was so dark that Phil couldscarcely distinguish their figures and their voices were pitched so low thatit was impossible for him to hear what they were saying.
　　"This looks queer," Phil muttered. "I wish I could hear what they aretalking about. Perhaps they are town fellows who have been chased offthe lot because they were in the way. At any rate, I'm going to try to findout what they are up to. Hello, they are coming right over here."Phil crouched down behind the knoll and listened. The men turnedslowly and came toward him. All at once one of them stumbled on thevery knoll behind which he was secreted.
　　The man uttered a growl.
　　"Come, sit down," he said to his companion.
　　"We better go on," answered the other.
　　"No hurry. We've got all the time in the world. If we miss the boatwe can swim. That was a narrow escape. In a minute more we'd hadthat wagon fixed so they would never have got off the lot with it.""Hello," muttered Phil under his breath. "Something surely is goingon here. One of the voices I have heard before, and the other I seem torecognize. I believe that first fellow belongs to the show. I am almostsure of it.""You think the fellow suspects?""The tall one does. But he doesn't know whom be suspects.""We have to take care.""Yes.""But we will get both before the end of the season.""You bet we will. I have a plan that--""What is it?""It is this."Phil had buried his head in the grass and compressed his body intothe smallest possible space that he might avoid discovery. He could hearthe two men breathe, and he reasoned that they might hear him as well.
　　"You know the big net?""You mean the one over which the flying four perform?""Yes.""What about it?""It can be fixed.""How?""By weakening some of the strands on each side.""That is good, but suppose someone noticed.""Not if it is done right. I don't mean to do it all at once. I'll doctorone or two strands every day until the net is so weakened that it won'thold.""Yes, but how will you do this so no one will see?""I'll tell you. After the act is over they roll the net up and carry it out.
　　It is dumped just outside the pad room, where it is picked up by one of theproperty wagons later in the evening. It's in the same place every night.""I think somebody may see us do it.""No danger. Keep cool; that's all. We'll get even with those fellows.
　　We have got to before we can carry out the other plans we have talkedover. They are too sharp. Sooner or later they will get wise to us, andwe've got to get them out of the way before we go any further. The workmust be done in a natural sort of way, so that no suspicion is aroused.""Yes, that's so. But what about the others? You want to hurt them,too?""I don't care, so long as we get the right one, how many get theirbumps.""That's right. But only one of them is on trapeze. What you doabout other?""It is the tall one that I want most. He's got to be put out of therunning. It won't kill him, but it will lay him up in a hospital for the restof the season, and that's enough for us.""Yes.""The other one will be taken care of after we get through with thefirst. The small fellow is sharp, but he can't see beyond his nose. It'seasy to fool him.""The fiends!" muttered Phil. "I believe they are plotting againstTeddy and me. I have a good notion to sail into them right here andsettle it. I believe I could whip the two of them. I--"At that instant a blade of grass tickled Phil's nose. He raised his headquickly.
　　"What's that?" exclaimed one of the plotters.
　　"I heard nothing.""You didn't? Well, I did. There's someone around here and close byus.""Perhaps it was a squirrel in the grass. There is no one here."The blade of grass had done its work, however. Phil tried hard tocontrol himself, but he knew he was going to sneeze.
　　All at once the sneeze came, louder than he had ever sneezed before.
　　The men leaped to their feet in sudden alarm.
Chapter 17 Eavesdroppers!
　　"Look out!""There he is!""Grab him!"Phil had bounded to his feet, realizing that he could no longer concealhimself from them. As he did so, both men sprang toward him, theCircus Boy eluding them by a leap to one side.
　　The men made a rush for him. At first Phil was inclined to stand hisground and give battle, but he reasoned that, being two to one, the chanceswere against him and that even if he were not captured, he might sustaininjuries that would keep him out of the ring.
　　That was the deciding factor with Phil Forrest. Although he wouldhave preferred facing his enemies, he whirled instead and started on a run,with both men pursuing him at top speed.
　　"He's out-running us. He'll get away!" cried one of the men. "Run,run! Run for all you're worth!"But they might as well have spared their effort. Phil was fleet of foot,and after getting a slight lead over them he turned sharply to his right,leaped a fence and lay down.
　　The men quickly discovered that they had lost their prey. Then theybecame alarmed.
　　"Get out of here, quick! He will be following us!"The men turned and ran swiftly in an opposite direction.
　　"Do you think he recognized us?""I don't know. We can tell by the way he acts when we get back; thatis if he doesn't follow us now. We had better separate and go back to thelot. From there we can go along with the wagons and not be noticed.
　　Don't let him bluff you.""Have no fear for me."The plotters separated and cautiously made their way back to the lotwhere they were soon lost among the crowd of men at work taking downthe tent.
　　"I believe one of those two men was Diaz," declared Phil, as he oncemore tried to place the voice that he had seemed to recognize. "Theyhave given me the slip, too. I know what I'll do. I will hurry back tothe boat and when Diaz returns I will face him and make him betrayhimself if I can. I shall have him then."Having decided on his course of action, Phil struck off at a trot acrossthe field. He soon reached a back street of the village, and from there ranat full speed to the docks.
　　All was activity here. The lad cast a quick glance about, though hedid not expect to find the man for whom he was looking. Withoutpausing in his rapid gait he ran up the companionway to the upper deck,where he intended to watch at the rail for the arrival of Diaz from the lot.
　　As he leaned over the rail he felt someone stir near him. Glancing upquickly, the Circus Boy started almost guiltily. There, beside him, satDiaz on a camp stool with his feet on the steamer's rail, calmly watchingthe loading operations on the deck below.
　　"Good evening, Mr. Diaz," said Phil quickly recovering his self-possession.
　　Diaz uttered an unintelligible grunt, but did not deign to turn his head.
　　"Hey, Phil, is that you?" called the voice of Teddy from further downthe deck.
　　"Yes," answered Phil, rising and moving aft. "How long have youbeen here?""About an hour.""Do you know who is sitting over there?""Over where?""There by the rail?""Sure, I know. That's our old friend Diaz," grinned Teddy.
　　"How long has he been there?""He came in when I did." "An hour ago?""Yes."Phil was perplexed.
　　"I do not understand it at all.""Don't understand what?""Something that occurred this evening."Teddy's curiosity was aroused.
　　"What is it all about, Phil?""I should prefer not to talk about it here, Teddy. I will tell you afterwe get to bed and there is no one about to overhear us. There is a rascallyplot on foot.""A plot?""Yes. I know very little about it, but I know enough to warn me thatyou and I will have to keep our eyes open or else we shall find ourselvesin serious difficulties before we realize it.""Is that so? Tell me who the plotters are, and I'll turn January looseon them," explained Teddy. "Do you think they are the fellows who stolemy egg?""I don't know. Where is Mr. Sparling?""I haven't seen him since I ran into him and bowled him over off onthe lot."Phil laughed.
　　"As I have said many times before, you are hopeless, Teddy. I mustgo now. If you see Mr. Sparling, please let me know, but say nothing toanyone about what I have just told you.""I won't."Phil walked back to the point on the deck where he had first stopped tolook over the rail, and, drawing up a stool sat down. He began studyingthe faces of the belated performers who came straggling down to the dock,singly and in pairs. None seemed to be in a hurry; not a face appeared toreflect any excitement. After an hour of this Phil felt sure that all thecompany had been accounted for.
　　Mr. Sparling had arrived about twenty minutes earlier, and wasstanding on the dock giving orders. As the lad saw the owner enter theboat he turned away and hurried downstairs.
　　"When you are at liberty, I should like a few moments conversationwith you, sir," announced Phil.
　　"I am at liberty, now, my lad," answered the showman with a smile anda friendly slap on the boy's shoulder.
　　"I would rather not talk here, Mr. Sparling," answered Phil in a lowtone.
　　"Something doing, eh?""There is.""Is it important that you should talk with me at once, or will a littlelater on answer the purpose?""Later on will do. It is not so urgent as that.""When the men get these menagerie cages all shifted on deck I willmeet you in my cabin. That will be in about twenty minutes, Phil.""Very well, sir; I will be on hand."Phil walked away, watched the loading operations for a few minutes,then strolled to the main cabin on the upper deck, where lunch was beingserved as usual.
　　The Circus Boy appeared more light-hearted than usual that evening,as he chatted and joked with his friends among the performers. He didnot wish the man or men whom he had overheard off on the lot to knowthat he was the eavesdropper. He felt that he could make better progressin his investigation were they not on their guard.
　　The pilot, Cummings, was not in the cabin. He had not been seenthere since his trouble with Teddy. Despite the pilot's determination toresign, he was still on duty, he and Mr. Sparling having come to asatisfactory understanding.
　　Teddy was helping himself liberally for the second time since hisreturn from the lot.
　　"Do you think you will ever be able to satisfy that appetite of yours?"laughed Phil.
　　"I hope not," answered Teddy solemnly. "That's the only fun in life-thatand the donkey."Just then Mr. Sparling passed through the cabin on the way to hisstateroom and office. He gave Phil a significant glance, to which theCircus Boy did not respond. A few minutes later, however, Phil strolledout to the deck. Reaching it he turned quickly and hurried aft, enteringthe passageway there and going directly to Mr. Sparling's quarters.
　　"Come in," invited the owner in response to Phil's gentle rap.
　　The blinds had been drawn up, though the windows were let down intotheir casings out of sight. Phil noted this in a quick glance.
　　"Sit down and tell me what has happened, Phil. I am sure you havemade some sort of discovery.""I have and I haven't.""What do you mean?""That I am deeper in the mire than ever.""Tell me about it.""While I have made no discoveries that will help us much, I havelearned just enough to understand that there is a diabolical plot on foot.""Against whom?""I am not sure, but I think it is against Teddy and myself.""Is it possible? Who are the plotters?""That is the worst of it; I do not know. I wish I did. I thought Ihad one of the men identified, but I find I am all wrong. I am more atsea than ever." "Who did you think it was?""As long as I am mistaken, why should I accuse anyone?""You are right. Have you reason to believe it is someone connectedwith this show?""I am sure that at least one of the men is.""Then there is more than one in this thing?""There are two men. At least I have seen two. There may be morefor all I know.""Now, tell me what it is all about. You haven't said a word regardingthis plot yet," urged the showman drawing his chair around the corner ofhis desk and leaning forward with his hands on his knees.
　　Phil told how he strolled off into the field adjoining the circus lot, andwent on in detail to relate all that had occurred after that. As heproceeded with his story the face of James Sparling grew serious and thenstern.
　　"I presume I should have stood my ground and given battle to them, iffor no other reason than to find out who they were," concluded the lad,somewhat ruefully.
　　"Phil Forrest, you should have done nothing of the sort," answered Mr.
　　Sparling sharply. "You take quite enough risk as it is. You think theplot now is to tamper with the big net?""Yes, sir.""Is it possible that such scoundrels are traveling with the Sparlingshows?""I wish I did not think so.""Phil, it is not the man who was responsible for several accidents thefirst year you were with us, is it?" demanded the showman shrewdly,darting a sharp glance at Phil.
　　"No, sir," answered the boy flushing a little. "That man is no longerwith the show.""I thought so. Now I have him located.""The--the man I saw tonight--you know him?" gasped Phil.
　　"No. I did not mean that. I refer to the fellow who nearly causedyour death three years ago.""Oh!""You had some trouble with Diaz a short time ago, did you not?"Phil was surprised that the showman was aware of this.
　　"Yes.""Where is Diaz tonight?" demanded the showman almost sternly.
　　"In his stateroom, or else out on deck.""Are you sure?"Phil nodded.
　　"What time did he return from the lot?""He was here when I went on deck. He came to the boat directlyafter the performance.""You are sure of this?""I am.""You are a very shrewd young man, sir," said Mr. Sparling, with amirthless smile. "However, these guilty men must be found andpunished. You think their first efforts will be directed toward the net?""Yes, according to what I overheard. I have an idea, however, thatthey will not do so at once, fearing they may have been recognized, or atany rate that their plans are known to someone else.""Do you think they recognized you?""I do not. I did not speak. I was on the point of doing so, thenchecked myself.""Right! You are one in a hundred. I will have a watch kept on thenet, and an examination made of it before every performance."Phil smiled faintly.
　　"I am not afraid for myself.""No, that's your greatest failing. You are not afraid of anything andyou take very long chances. I hope you will be more cautious in thefuture. You must be careful, Phil, and you had better caution yourpartner, Teddy Tucker. Does he know of this?""No, but I intend to tell him. He is more interested in the possibilityof recovering his egg than in any personal danger to himself or to me,"said the Circus Boy with a short laugh.
　　"Keep your eyes open, and take care of yourself. If we fail to get aclue by the time we get to Des Moines I shall send to St. Louis for the bestdetective they have and put him on the case. Perhaps it would be best todo so now.""I think--" began Phil, when his words were arrested by a loud noisejust outside the cabin, on the deck.
　　Mr. Sparling and Phil started up, for the instant not understanding themeaning of the disturbance.
　　"Wha--what--" gasped the showman.
　　Phil ran to the window and looked out.
　　The deck at that point was deserted. He thought he saw a figuredodge into an entrance near the stern of the boat, and looking forward hediscovered another disappearing in that direction.
　　The Circus Boy sprang for the door.
　　"What is it, what is it?" cried the showman.
　　"Eavesdroppers!" answered the lad, darting out into the passageway,followed closely by Mr. Sparling.
　　"You go that way and I'll go this," directed Phil.
Chapter 18 Making A Capture
The two ran down the corridor, Mr. Sparling heading for the forwardend, Phil toward the stern.
　　"There he goes! I see him!" shouted the showman as a figure leapedout to the deck, slamming the door. "We have him now!"Phil rushed out at the stern and started to run along the starboard sideof the boat. As he emerged he caught sight of a figure running towardhim, and behind the figure, Mr. Sparling, coming along the deck in greatstrides.
　　"Stop! We've got you!" shouted the showman.
　　Phil spread out his arms as the fleeing one drew near him, then threwthem about the fellow, holding him in a firm grip.
　　"I've got him, Mr. Sparling!""Leggo of me! What's the matter with you? Anybody would thinkthis was a high school initiation.""Teddy," groaned Phil.
　　"What's that?" demanded the showman jerking Phil and his prisonerover to an open window through which a faint light was showing.
　　"It is Teddy Tucker, sir," said Phil releasing his hold.
　　"What does this mean, sir?" demanded the showman in a stern voice.
　　"That's what I want to know. You fellows chase me around the boatas if I were some kind of a football. It's a wonder one of you didn't kickme. Lucky for you that you didn't, too, I can tell you.""Teddy, come to my cabin at once. Phil, bring him along, will you?""Yes," answered Phil Forrest. Phil was troubled. He could notbelieve it possible that Teddy was guilty of eavesdropping, and yet theevidence seemed to point strongly in that direction. Taking firm hold ofhis companion's arm he led him along toward Mr. Sparling's cabin.
　　"What's all this row about?" growled Teddy.
　　"That is what I hope you will be able to explain to Mr. Sparling'ssatisfaction," replied Phil. "However, wait till we get to his cabin."Phil led Teddy to the door, thrust him in, then followed, closing andlocking the door.
　　"Perhaps we had better close that window this time, sir.""Yes."Mr. Sparling drew up and locked the window.
　　"Sit down!" he commanded, eyeing Teddy keenly.
　　Teddy sat down dutifully and was about to place his feet on theshowman's desk when Phil nudged him.
　　"Now, sir, what does this mean?""What does what mean? I never was any good at guessing riddles.""What do you mean by eavesdropping at my cabin window?""Oh, was that your window?""It was and it is. And unless you can offer a satisfactory explanation,something will have to be done. That is one of the things that I shall nottolerate. I can scarcely believe you guilty of such a disgraceful act.
　　Unfortunately, you have admitted it.""Admitted what?""That you were listening at my window.""I never said anything of the sort.""No, not in so many words; but when I asked you what you meant bydoing so, you answered, 'Oh, was that your window?'""Certainly I said it.""Then will you kindly explain why?""I wasn't listening at your window. I wasn't within half a block--halfa boat, I mean--of it. What do you think I am?""Well, Teddy, for a minute I thought you had been guilty of aninexcusable act but upon second thought I begin to understand that it isimpossible. There is some misunderstanding here."Phil looked relieved, but Teddy was gazing at the showman with half-closed eyes.
　　"While Phil and myself were holding a confidential conversation here,someone was listening to us under that window. All at once the blind fellwith a crash--""And so did the other fellow," interrupted Teddy, his eyes lighting upmischievously.
　　"Phil looked out quickly. He thought he saw someone dodging intothe entrance aft, and at the same time he was sure someone was doing thesame thing forward.""I was the fellow who dodged in the forward entrance. Then youfellows started a sprinting match with me.""Why did you run?""Oh, I suppose I might as well tell you all about it.""Yes, if we are to make any headway it will be best to let you tell yourstory in your own way," answered Mr. Sparling with a grim smile.
　　"I was halfway between here and the pilot house, sitting down on thedeck, leaning against the side of the deck-house. I had just gone tosleep, at least I think I had, when I woke up suddenly. I saw somebodydown this way peeping in at a window. I became curious. I wonderedif he was the fellow who stole my egg, so I got up to investigate. Justthen he saw me.""Well, what happened?""He was standing on a box. The box tipped over or he jumped off, Idon't know which. I thought he was chasing me, and I ran.""Afraid, eh?" jeered Phil.
　　"No, I wasn't afraid. I just ran because I needed the exercise; that'sall. Do you think he really had my egg?""Who was the man, Teddy?""How do I know?""You saw him. Could you not--did you not recognize him?""No, it was too dark. I didn't wait long after I first discovered him,you know. I thought maybe it was that fellow Cummings, laying for me.
　　I wish January had finished him while he had the chance.""You noticed nothing familiar about him?""Yes, I did.""What?""He looked like some kind of a man," answered Teddy solemnly.
　　"Oh, fudge!""You say he was standing on a box?""Something of the sort."Mr. Sparling went out, leaving the boys alone for a few minutes.
　　When he returned he brought with him a small square box which heexamined very carefully.
　　"Do you recognize it?" asked Phil.
　　"Yes, it is one in which the candy butcher received some goods. Itmight have been picked up by anyone. I will find out where he left it.
　　This may give us some slight clue. It is quite evident, boys, that we haveamong us one or more dangerous men. Teddy, I offer you my humbleapology for having suspected you for a moment. The thought wasunworthy.""Don't mention it," answered the Circus Boy airily.
Chapter 19 Teddy Joins The Band
"I would suggest that you divide the band into two parts and havethem play on deck as we approach the next stand," said Phil later thatevening.
　　"I think that a most excellent plan," decided Mr. Sparling. "We willwork it whenever we get in after daylight. It might not be a bad idea totry it tomorrow morning. I'll allow the musicians overtime for it, so thereshould be no objection on their part. We will make a triumphal entry intoDes Moines, providing nothing happens to us in the meantime."Mr. Sparling's face darkened as he thought of the dastardly attemptsthat had been made against his young charges.
　　"I will see the leader before I turn in. You had better go to bed now,Phil. You have been keeping pretty late hours and working unusuallyhard. Good night.""Good night," answered Phil pleasantly.
　　Man and boy had come to be very fond of each other, and PhilForrest could not have felt a more genuine affection for Mr. Sparling hadthe latter been his own father.
　　"A noble fellow," was Mr. Sparling's comment as the youth walkedaway from the cabin.
　　At half-past three o'clock the next morning the boat's passengers wereawakened by the blare of brass, the crash of cymbals and the boom of thebig bass drum.
　　They tumbled out of bed in a hurry, for few of them knew of the planof the owner to give an early morning concert on the deck of the "FatMarie."Teddy Tucker struck the floor of his cabin broadside on.
　　"Wake up, Phil! We're late for the show. It's already begun and herewe are in bed.""Guess again, Teddy," answered Phil sleepily. "Don't you knowwhere you are?""I thought I did, but I don't. Where am I?""In our cabin on the ship.""But the band, the band?""It is playing for the benefit of the natives along the shore.""Oh, pooh! And here I am wide awake. Do you know what time itis?""No.""It is only twenty minutes of four.""In the afternoon? Goodness we are late.""No, in the morning, you ninny. This is a shame. I'll bet that bandconcert was your suggestion, Phil Forrest."Phil admitted the charge.
　　"Then you must take your medicine with the rest of us. Come out ofthat!"One of Phil's feet was peeping out from under the covers. Teddy sawit and grabbed it. Being a strong boy, the mighty tug he gave wasproductive of results.
　　Phil landed on his back on the floor, with a resounding thump and ajolt that made him see stars.
　　"Teddy Tucker, look out; I'm coming!""You had better look out; I'm waiting."The two supple-limbed youngsters met in the middle of the cabin floorand went down together. They were evenly matched, and the muscles oftheir necks stood out like whip cords as they struggled over the floor, eachseeking to get a fall from his antagonist.
　　Teddy managed to roll under the bed, and there they continued theirearly morning battle, but under no slight difficulties. Every time one ofthe gladiators forgot himself and raised his head, he bumped it. Phil triedto force Teddy out from under the bed, but Teddy refused to be forced.
　　"When--when I get you out of here I am going to do something to youthat you won't like, Teddy Tucker," panted Phil.
　　"What--what you going to do to me?""I'm going to pour a pitcher of cold water on your bare feet.""Oh!"The thought of it sent Teddy into a nervous chill. He would rathertake a sound thrashing, at any time, than have that done to him. Now hestruggled more desperately than ever to hold Phil under the bed. At last,however, the boys rolled out and Teddy's shoulders struck the cabin floorwith a bang that sent the pitcher jingling in the wash bowl.
　　Phil sprang up, seized the water pitcher, making a threatening movewith it toward his companion.
　　"Wow! Don't, don't!" howled Teddy.
　　Phil pursued him around the cabin, the water splashing from thepitcher to the floor. Teddy yelling like a wild Indian every time hestepped in the puddles.
　　The window was open and the band was playing just outside.
　　Suddenly a new plan occurred to Teddy--a plan whereby he mightescape from his tormentor.
　　Taking a running start he sprang up, making a clean dive through thewindow head-first.
　　The lad had intended to land on his hands, do a cartwheel and come upeasily on his feet. But the best-laid plans sometimes go wrong.
　　The bass drummer was pounding his drum right in line with thewindow. Teddy did not see the drum until too late to change his course.
　　His head hit the drum with a bang. He went clear through it, his headprotruding from the other side. And there he stuck!
　　"Oh, wow!" howled the Circus Boy.
　　The other members of the band, discovering that the drum was nolonger marking time for them, got out of tune and came to a discordantstop.
　　The leader, whose side had been toward the drummer at the time, didnot know what had happened. He was furious. He was about toupbraid them when he discovered the head of Teddy Tucker protrudingfrom the head of the drum.
　　"Wha--wha--what--"The bass drummer paid no attention to him. Instead he grabbed theoffending boy by the feet, bracing his own feet against the rim of theinstrument, and began to pull. The drummer was red in the face,perspiring and angry.
　　Teddy popped out like a pea from a pod. The Circus Boy was not yetout of his trouble. With unlooked-for strength the irate drummer threwthe lad over his knees, face down, and raised the drumstick aloft.
　　This drumstick, as our readers well know, is made of heavy leather-thatis the beating end is--and is hard. To add to the distress of the victim,Teddy was in his pink pajamas and they were thin.
　　Whack!
　　The stick came down with more force than seemed necessary.
　　"Ouch! Stop it! I'll pay you back for keeps for that!"Whack!
　　"Oh, Phil!" Teddy was making desperate efforts to squirm away now,but his position was such that he was unable to bring his full strength tobear on the task.
　　The stick was raised for another blow, but there came an interruptionthat took all thought of continuing the punishment out of the mind of theangry drummer.
　　"Stop it! I don't want to be a drum!" howled the boy.
　　Splash!
　　A pitcher of water was emptied over the drummer's head, a large partof the water running down and soaking Teddy to the skin, causing thatyoung gentleman to howl lustily.
　　It gave the boy the opportunity he was looking for, however. With aquick twist he wrenched himself free from the grasp of the drummer,dropped on all fours and was up and away, a pink streak along the portside of the "Fat Marie."Phil had come to the rescue of his companion. He now jerked thewindow shut and slammed the blind in place, after which he quickly gotinto his clothes, fully expecting that he should have a call from the bassdrummer.
　　There was a great uproar on deck about that time, with much shoutingand unintelligible language--at least unintelligible to Phil.
　　Before he had finished dressing, Teddy came skulking in, rubbinghimself and muttering threats as to what he proposed to do to thedrummer.
　　"You did it! You did!" he shouted, pointing a finger at Phil Forrest.
　　"It strikes me that you did something, too--""No I didn't. Something was done to me. I had on my pajamas,too," wailed the boy. "I'm glad you soaked him, though. Why didn'tyou throw the pitcher at him, too?""Oh, no, it might have hurt him, Teddy.""Hurt him? Pshaw! Maybe the drumstick didn't hurt me. Oh, no!""Well, get dressed. I will go out and see if I can pour oil on thetroubled waters. You stay here. I don't want you mixing it up with thedrummer. I'll attend to him."Phil first hunted up Mr. Sparling, whom he found shaving in his cabin.
　　"Why good morning, Phil. Why this early call?""I called to ask you what a new set of heads will cost for the bassdrum?""I think they are worth about fifteen dollars. Why do you ask?""Because Teddy and myself have just smashed the heads out of the onebelonging to the band."Mr. Sparling paused in his shaving long enough to glance keenly atPhil. There was a twinkle in his eyes. He knew that his Circus Boyshad been up to some mischief. Phil was as solemn as an owl.
　　"It was this way," explained the lad, as he related how the accident hadoccurred.
　　Mr. Sparling sat down and laughed.
　　"Never mind the drum heads. We have others for just such anemergency, I do not mind a little fun once in a while. We all have toblow off steam sometimes.""No, sir; we shall pay for the drum heads. To whom does thebelong?""The drummer, I think.""Very well; thank you."Phil hastily withdrew from the cabin and hurried back to hisdrumownstateroom.
　　"Teddy," he said, "I want seven-fifty from you.""What's that?""Seven dollars and a half, please."Teddy began pawing over his trousers. All at once he paused,looking up at Phil suspiciously.
　　"You want to borrow seven-fifty, do you?""No, I want you to contribute it.""To what?""To the fund.""What fund? What are you talking about?""Those drum heads are worth fifteen dollars and we are going to paythe owner of the drum for the damage we did. I will give half and youhalf.""What!" shrieked Teddy.
　　"Come, pay up!""What! Give that fellow money when he's taken more than twenty-five dollars worth out of my hide? I guess not! What kind of an easymark do you think I am? Pay him yourself. You did it.""Teddy, do you want me to give you a good thrashing, right here andnow?""You can't do it. You never could," returned Teddy, belligerently.
　　"Come, hand out the money!"Teddy eyed his companion for a full minute; then, thrusting a handslowly into his own trousers' pocket, brought forth a goodly roll of billsfrom which he counted off eight dollars.
　　"Tell him to keep the change.""I will, thank you," said Phil with a merry twinkle in his eyes.
　　"It's like taking candy out of the mouth of a babe. I'll get more thaneight dollars' worth out of that bass--he's baser than he is bass. Basssounds like a fish, doesn't it--out of that bass drummer when I get a goodfair chance at him. Sometime when he isn't looking, you know.
　　wonder if he could be the fellow who stole my egg?" questioned Teddyreflectively.
　　Phil went out laughing, to make his peace with the drummer.
Chapter 20 A Capture In The Air
Fortunately, the band carried a new set of heads for the drum, and thecontribution of the boys served to restore the offended musicians to goodnature. Teddy, however, was not appeased. That youngster vowed thathe would take revenge on the bass drummer at the very first opportunity.
　　That afternoon, during the performance, Teddy began his getting-even process by standing in front of the bandstand between his acts, andmaking faces at the musicians.
　　This seemed to amuse them, and brought only smiles to their faces.
　　Teddy was not there for the purpose of amusing the band, so he turned hisback on them and tried to think of something more effective.
　　The show did a great business at Des Moines, having a "turn-away" atboth afternoon and evening performances. The Sparling shows hadplayed there before, but never to such business, which the showmandecided was due to their novel way of traveling. He knew that these littlenovelties frequently made fortunes for Circus owners.
　　At the evening performance, Teddy had an inspiration. He was toobusy, during the first part of the show, to give his idea a practical test, butlater in the evening, while he was awaiting his cue to go on in his clownact, he tried the new plan.
　　The lad had purchased half a dozen lemons from the refreshmentstand. One of these he cut in halves, secreting the pieces in a pocket ofhis clown costume; then when the time came he stationed himself in frontof the bandstand where he stood until he had gained the attention ofseveral of the musicians.
　　Teddy took out the two pieces of lemon with a great flourish, wentthrough the motions of sprinkling sugar over them, then began suckingfirst one piece, then the other, varying his performance by holding out thelemon invitingly to the players.
　　The bass drum player scowled. Teddy's lemon did not affect thebeating of the drum, but as the lad began to make believe that the acidjuice was puckering his lips, some of the musicians showed signs ofuneasiness.
　　The Circus Boy observing this, smacked his lips again and again, andindustriously swallowed the juice, though it nearly choked him to do so.
　　Very soon some of the players got off the key, their playing grewuneven and in some instances stopped altogether. The leader could notunderstand what the trouble was. He called out angrily to the offendingmusicians, but this seemed only to add to their troubles.
　　All at once the big German, who played the bass horn, rose from hisseat and hurled his music rack at the offending Teddy Tucker. Everythingon the bandstand came to a standstill, and the performers in the ringglanced sharply down that way, wondering what could have happened.
　　The leader turned and discovered Teddy and his lemons. He wasbeside himself with rage. He understood, now, why his musicians hadfailed. Teddy sucking the lemon had given many of them "thepuckers."It was an old trick, but it worked as well as if it had been brand new.
　　The Circus Boy was delighted. The leader experienced no suchsensations. With an angry exclamation, he leaped from the box onwhich he was standing, aiming a blow at Teddy with his baton.
　　The boy dodged it and ran laughing out into the ring, for it was nowtime for him to go on in his next act.
　　After a minute or two the band once more collected itself and the showwent on, but there were dire threats uttered against Teddy Tucker by theleader and players. The bass drummer grinned appreciatively.
　　"I wish I could think of something that would tie up that fellow withthe drum," muttered Teddy, gazing off at the drummer with resentful eyes.
　　The band leader had no scruples against carrying tales, andimmediately after the performance he hunted up Mr. Sparling and entereda complaint against the irrepressible Teddy. The result was that Teddywas given a severe lecture by the showman after they got on board theboat that night. Then Phil added a warning.
　　"Well, what about yourself?" retorted the lad.
　　"Why?""I never stirred up as much roughhouse as you did this morning. Youhad better take some of that advice to yourself."Phil laughed good-naturedly.
　　"I shall have to admit the impeachment," he said.
　　It seemed, however, as if the Sparling shows could not get alongwithout exciting incidents happening at least once in twenty-four hours.
　　They appeared to follow the Circus Boys, too, like a plague. It is likelythat, had they not followed the boys, Teddy Tucker would have gone outhunting for them.
　　The next morning something else occurred that was not a part of thedaily routine. The boats were late and the next stand was not yet in sight,so the band had not been called to work as early as on the previousmorning. The bandsmen were just rousing themselves, in response toraps on their cabin doors, when they heard rapid footsteps on the deck, andexcited shouts from several voices.
　　Teddy and Phil awakened at about the same time, having beendisturbed by the unusual sounds.
　　"Now, what is the trouble?" exclaimed Phil.
　　"Something is going on, and here I am in bed," answered Teddy,tumbling out and throwing open the blinds.
　　He saw nothing unusual. The boat was slipping along, enveloped in acloud of black smoke. The disturbance seemed to be on the other side ofthe vessel.
　　"Come on, Phil. Let's find out what it is all about. Maybe the boathas struck a rock and we are sinking. Wouldn't that be fun?""I don't see anything funny about that. It would be serious, and youand I would be out of a job for the rest of the season.""Don't you care! I have money. Didn't I give you seven-fiftyyesterday and still have some left?""Eight," grinned Phil.
　　By this time the boys had hurried out into the corridor, and thence tothe deck.
　　"Well, what do you think of that?" howled Teddy.
　　"Bruiser is out," exclaimed Phil.
　　Bruiser was a baboon, whose temper was none too angelic. He was abig heavy fellow, who never lost an opportunity to vent his temper onwhoever chanced to be within reach.
　　It seems that on this particular occasion a sleepy keeper was cleaningBruiser's cage so that it might be neat and presentable when the showopened. Bruiser had sat on a trapeze far up in the cage, watching theproceedings with resentful eyes, perhaps wondering how he mightadminister a rebuke to the keeper.
　　All at once the baboon saw his opportunity. The keeper had stoopedover to pick up something from the floor of the boat, as he stood at theopen door of the cage in the rear.
　　Bruiser projected himself toward the opening like a catapult. At thatinstant the keeper had straightened up and the baboon hit him squarelyin the face. There could be but one result. The keeper tumbled overon his back.
　　Chattering joyously, Bruiser began hopping off on all fours. First heinvestigated the tops of the cages, running over them and bringing roarsfrom the animals within. Then he hopped down and paid a visit to thehorses.
　　January sent a volley of kicks at the beast, but Bruiser was too quick,and the hoofs passed harmlessly over his head.
　　About this time the keeper had scrambled to his feet in alarm. Atfirst he did not know where the baboon had gone, but hearing thedisturbance among the horses he ran that way, soon coming uponBruiser. With a scream of defiance, the animal bolted up thecompanionway, hurriedly investigated the corridors and the main cabin,then leaped out through an open window to the hurricane deck.
　　Two other men had joined in the chase now, and it was their shoutsthat had awakened the Circus Boys.
　　"Come on, here's sport!" shouted Teddy Tucker starting on a run afterthe fleeing Bruiser. The latter tried to climb up the smoke stack andnarrowly missed being captured in the attempt. At the same time heburned his feet, filling him with rage and resentment, so that, when thekeeper grabbed him, the former's face was badly scratched.
　　Round and round the deck ran pursued and pursuers, the baboonhaving not the slightest difficulty in eluding his followers, Teddy chasinggleefully and howling at the top of his shrill voice.
　　Others joined the chase, until well nigh half the boat's company racedyelling up and down the decks. Mr. Sparling was one of the number,though he devoted most of his attention to directing the others.
　　One mast had been erected on the boat from which to fly flags, andfrom this rope braces ran off forward and aft.
　　Finally Bruiser was so hard pressed that he took to this rigging and ranup one of the ropes to the mast, where he perched on the end of a spar andappeared to mock his pursuers.
　　Poles were brought, at the direction of the owner, with which the mensought to poke Bruiser down. But the poles were too short. Then themen threw ropes and missiles at the baboon, most of which wentoverboard and were lost.
　　"It is no use. We shall have to wait until he gets ready to comedown," decided Mr. Sparling. "How did he get away?"The keeper explained.
　　"He won't come down today," added the man. "That is, so long as weare here. He is a bad one.""You do not have to tell me that. Can any of you offer suggestions?
　　I am not very strong on capturing escaped animals. Phil, how about it?"Phil shook his head.
　　"I have an idea, Mr. Sparling," spoke up Teddy.
　　"I knew you had, from the expression on your face. What is it?""I'll climb up and shake him down."A loud laugh greeted this remark.
　　"You couldn't climb up there. The mast is too slippery.""I'll show you.""Very well; go ahead.""Teddy, I think I would keep out of this, were I in your place,"remarked Phil.
　　"You keep out of it yourself. I'll show you that I know how to catchwild beasts. I haven't ridden January all this time for nothing."Teddy started in bravely to climb the mast. After a great struggle hemanaged to get up about eight feet. Suddenly he lost his grip and camesliding down, landing at the foot of the mast in a heap.
　　A shout greeted his ludicrous drop.
　　"I think you had better give it up," laughed Mr. Sparling.
　　"I won't give it up.""You cannot climb the mast.""I don't intend to. I have an idea.""What is your idea?""I will show you. Bring me a rope."The rope was quickly handed to him. The Circus Boy coiled it neatly,closely observed by the show people, who did not understand what he wasabout to do.
　　"I'm a sailor, you know," he grinned. Measuring the distanceaccurately, Teddy swung the coil about his head a few times, then let it flyup into the air, keeping the free end in one hand as he did so.
　　The coil tumbled over the yard or cross piece and came down, hittingthe deck with a thump.
　　"There. Can you beat that?" he demanded triumphantly.
　　"Very well done," agreed Mr. Sparling. "Now that it is over, what doyou propose to do next?""Watch me!"The lad made fast one end of the rope to the ship's rail, the baboonpeering down suspiciously.
　　"Oh, I'm after you, you rascal," jeered Teddy, shaking a fist at the uglyface above him.
　　After testing the rope, Teddy began climbing it hand over hand. Thenthe spectators divined his purpose.
　　"The boy is all right," nodded Mr. Sparling approvingly. "That is thetime that he got the best of you, Phil.""He is welcome to the job," answered Phil. "You haven't captured thebaboon yet."Teddy, by this time, was halfway up the mast. It seemed a dizzyclimb, but the lad was so used to being up high that he did not mind it inthe least.
　　"Hey, down there!" he called.
　　"What is it?""Better get out a small net so you can catch him. I'm going to shakehim down as I would a ripe apple. If you catch him in the net he willtangle himself up so that he cannot get away.""That is a good idea," approved Mr. Sparling. "Get the net, and holdit in readiness."Teddy, in the meantime, was working his way up. After a time hishands grasped the crossbar and he pulled himself up astride it, waving onehand to those below him.
　　Bruiser, however, was not there. The baboon had scrambled to thetop of the mast on which there was a golden ball, and on this he perchedsome eight or nine feet above Teddy Tucker's head.
　　"Now where is your baboon?" called a voice.
　　"Where he cannot get away from me unless he jumps into theMississippi," answered Teddy quickly.
　　"How are you going to get him?" called Mr. Sparling.
　　"I'll see when I get to him."With great caution, the lad climbed up the slender top of the mast.
　　Bruiser's tail hung over, while he clung with his feet, glaring down atTeddy. The baboon realized that he could not get away.
　　"Come down here!" commanded Teddy, grabbing the beast's tail andgiving it a mighty tug.
　　Bruiser's grip gave way. Down shot Teddy and the baboon. Butthe cross-tree saved him, as the lad figured that it would. One hand wasclinging to Bruiser's tail, the other arm thrown about the mast.
　　Now, Bruiser took a hand. With a snarl of rage he fastened in the hairof Teddy Tucker's head, causing that young man to howl lustily.
　　For a moment boy and baboon "mixed it up" at such a lively rate that itwas difficult for the spectators below to tell which was boy and whichbaboon. Teddy seemed to be getting the worst of it.
　　"Look out! Let go of him! You will be in the river the first thingyou know!" shouted Mr. Sparling warningly.
　　Teddy did not hear him. He was too busy, at the moment, trying tokeep those savage teeth from fastening themselves in his neck, for whichthe beast seemed to be aiming. At the same time the boy was gettingmore and more angry. It was characteristic of Teddy that, the angrier hebecame, the cooler he grew.
　　He was guarding himself as best he could and watching his chance toget the upper hand of his antagonist.
　　All at once Teddy let drive a short-arm blow at the head of the baboon.
　　Few things could withstand that blow, and least of all a baboon. Itlanded fairly on the grinning jaws and Bruiser's head jolted backwards asif it were going right on into the river.
　　Teddy lost his balance, aided in this by the fact that Bruiser hadfastened to the lad's pajamas.
　　"They're going to fall!" roared Mr. Sparling. "Catch them! Catchthem!"The men hastened to move the net, and none too soon, for Teddy andBruiser came whirling down, the lad making desperate efforts to righthimself so as to drop on his feet. But the baboon prevented his doingthis.
　　They struck the net, which was jerked from the hands of the men, andTeddy hit the deck with a terrific bump.
Chapter 21 A Circus Boy Missing
"Grab the beast!"Teddy was still clinging to the baboon so firmly that they had to useforce to get Bruiser away from him.
　　As for the baboon, he was too dazed from the shock of the fall to offerany resistance, and was quickly captured and returned to his cage.
　　Teddy had not fared quite so well. He was unconscious, and for atime it was feared that he had been seriously injured.
　　As it turned out, however, he had escaped with nothing worse than asevere shock and a sprained wrist. A sprain of any sort is sufficient to layup a circus performer for sometime. As a result of his injury, TeddyTucker did not work again for the next week; that is, he did not enter thering, though he was anxious to do so. Mr. Sparling, however, would notpermit it.
　　Those were glorious days for Teddy. He could not keep away fromthe circus lot. He had plenty of time to think up new ways of tormentinghis enemies, some of which he applied from time to time. The boy wassafe, however, for no one felt inclined to punish a boy who was goingaround the outfit with one arm helpless in a sling.
　　Perhaps Teddy Tucker took advantage of this fact. At least, heenjoyed himself and, besides, found plenty of time to hunt for his lostegg. The boy was suspicious of everyone. One time he became firmlyconvinced that Mr. Sparling had taken it from him. The moment the ideaoccurred to him he hunted up the showman and demanded to know if thelatter had his egg.
　　"No," answered Mr. Sparling with a twinkle in his eyes, "but I will tryto arrange so you get another.""You will?""Yes.""Thank you; thank you.""I am having the show's carpenter make one out of wood.""I can't eat a wooden egg," protested Teddy.
　　"Why not? You were going to eat the ostrich egg. The wooden onewill give you indigestion no quicker than the other would have done.""I'll tell you what I will do," said the Circus Boy, an idea suddenlyoccurring to him.
　　"I am listening.""You have the carpenter make an egg and I will circulate the news thatI have another egg. I will leave it in my cabin and keep watch on thething. In that way I shall catch the fellow, if he tries to steal it again. Ishan't put it in the trunk. Oh, I'll talk a lot about that wooden egg.""I am in hopes we shall hear no more about eggs all the rest of the trip,after I give you another," said the showman. "Your idea is not a half-badone at that. If you catch the man we are looking for I will make you anice present.""What kind of a present?" asked Teddy with an eye to business.
　　"What would you like?""I'll have to think it over. There are so many things I want, that I donot know which I want most.""I thought you had money enough to buy whatever you needed. Bythe way, how much money have you saved, Teddy?""Let me see," reflected the lad, counting up on his fingers. "Why, Imust have a little more than three thousand dollars in the bank. Mrs.
　　Cahill is taking care of it for me, you know.""Fine, fine! That is splendid. What are you going to do with all ofthat money?""I think I will buy out the Sparling shows, someday, when you gettired of the business and want to sell at any old price," answered the boyboldly.
　　The showman laughed heartily.
　　"So you think you would like to own a show, do you?""Yes, sir, I am going to--Phil and I.""May I ask when this interesting affair is coming off--this purchasingof a real circus?""I told you. When you get tired of the business we are going to buyyou out.""You have it planned, eh?""Yes, sir; that is, I have. Phil doesn't know anything about that yet.
　　I haven't told him.""I thought not. So, while I am paying you to work for me, you areplanning to take my show away from me, are you?" questioned Mr.
　　Sparling with a smile.
　　"No, Sir; we are not trying to do anything of the sort. You have beentoo kind, and I thank you for all you have done for me, and--and all youhave put up with. You ought to have 'fired' me a long time ago--I guessyou ought to have done it before I started in the Show business. I'm gladyou didn't," added Teddy, glancing up with a bright smile.
　　It was the first time Mr. Sparling had ever heard the little Circus Boyexpress his appreciation. He patted the lad affectionately.
　　"I hope you are feeling quite well, today, my boy. You never talkedthis way before. What caused your sudden change of heart?""I--I guess it was the baboon," answered Teddy whimsically. "Or else,maybe, it was the bump I got when I hit the deck of the 'Fat Marie.'"Phil came up and joined them at that moment, waiting for his turn togo on in his trapeze act for the evening performance. Mr. Sparlingsurveyed him keenly. He noted the trim, athletic figure, the poise of thehead and the steady clear eyes that held one irresistibly.
　　"You are looking very handsome tonight, Phil," said the owner.
　　"Thank you, sir. 'Handsome is as handsome does,' as the sayinggoes," laughed the Circus Boy. "Are you having the net watched, Mr.
　　Sparling?""Yes, my lad. Two men are keeping close tab on the big spider weball the time, except in the afternoon, when no one would dare to tamperwith it for fear of being detected.""I am not so sure of that. You see, I have a personal interest in thatnet, seeing that I have to risk my bones over it twice each day.""Don't worry. It will be well watched, Phil.""I take the first drop in it, you know, so if it should give way youwould be minus Phil Forrest.""Teddy tells me you and he are thinking of buying out the Sparlingshows, eh?""Why, Teddy, how could you say such a thing?" demanded Phil,reddening.
　　Teddy expostulated, explaining that it was merely a dream in his ownmind, repeating that Phil knew nothing of it.
　　"I do intend to own a show, as I have told you before, Mr. Sparling,as soon as I have enough money. I am afraid, however, that that day is along way off.""Perhaps not so far off as you think, Phil. Perhaps both of you mayown a show much sooner than you even dream," said the showman,significantly. "Well, good night, boys if I do not see you again.""What do you think he meant by that?" questioned Teddy.
　　"I am sure I do not know. Perhaps he thinks we have a future beforeus and that we shall make rapid advances. I hope so, don't you, Teddy?""I think I would rather find my egg than have most anything else justnow.""Oh, hang your egg! There goes my cue. I must get out, now.
　　Bye, bye. You are a lucky boy not to have to work on this hot night."Phil waved his hand and tripped out into the arena. A few minuteslater he was soaring through the air with the gracefulness and ease of abird on the wing.
　　The boys did not meet again until bedtime, for Phil had turned inimmediately upon reaching the boat. Teddy, of course, was the last oneto go to bed, but he was soon asleep after reaching there.
　　Phil, on the contrary, had lain awake for some hours, thinking. Hewas still seeking a solution to the mystery that had been disturbing themalmost from the beginning of the season. Twice had an effort beenmade to do him serious injury at least. Who could have taken so violenta dislike to him as to wish to cause his death? There seemed to be noanswer to the question.
　　"I can think of no one, unless it is Diaz," muttered the boy. "Yet hesurely was not one of those who were plotting out on the lot that night.
　　He would not have had time to get back to the boat ahead of me. Thenagain, Teddy was sure that the clown had been back for more than an hour.
　　He may have had something to do with laying the trap in the ring forDimples and myself.""I am afraid I am not on the right track at all," decided Phil at last, witha deep sigh.
　　He was still awake when the "Fat Marie" shook off her moorings andwith a long blast of her siren, drifted out into the stream and beganpounding down the river.
　　Phil got up, stretched himself, looked out of the window, then decidedto go on deck to get the breeze, for the heat was stifling in his stateroom.
　　Teddy was sound asleep.
　　The deck seemed to be deserted. Phil walked over to the rail andleaning both elbows upon it closed his eyes dreamily.
　　It must have been fully an hour later when Teddy awakened suddenly,with a foreboding that something was not as it should be.
　　"Phil!" he called.
　　There was no reply.
　　"_Phil!_" repeated Teddy in a louder tone.
　　Failing to get a response, Teddy arose and found his companion's bedempty. Teddy, knowing that Phil seldom ever left the stateroom afterretiring, decided to go out to look for him. He investigated the cabin,then going out on dock peered into every shadow, calling softly for Phil.
　　Failing to get any trace of his chum, Teddy returned to his cabin, puton his slippers and went down to the lower deck, where he made inquiriesof the watchman, but with no better success.
　　Teddy Tucker began to feel alarmed. He hurried to the upper deckagain, once more going over it carefully, as well as the inside of the boat.
　　A terrible suspicion began to force itself upon him.
　　"Man overboard!" bellowed the Circus Boy. "Man overboard!" Heran through the corridors shouting the startling cry, then out to the deckrepeating it as he ran.
　　The cry was taken up by others as they rushed from their cabins, Mr.
　　Sparling among the number.
　　"Where, where?" shouted the showman. "Who--who--""It's Phil! He's gone. He's over there, somewhere, I don't knowwhere!"
Chapter 22 Overboard Into The River
"I can't understand it," Phil mused, as the soft evening breezes lulledhim into slumber.
　　"What! What!" he cried suddenly. "What is it? I'm falling!"The deck of the "Marie" all at once seemed to have dropped frombeneath him. He felt himself falling through space. What could itmean?
　　With the showman's instinct the Circus Boy quickly turned his body,spread out his hands and righted himself.
　　The night was black, and as yet he had not succeeded in collecting hissenses sufficiently to decide what had happened. He knew that he wasfalling, but that was all.
　　There was a sudden splash as his body struck the water. Phil shotright down beneath it and the waters of the Mississippi closed over him.
　　He understood then what had happened, but not for an instant did helose his presence of mind. Phil had caught his breath as his feet touchedthe water, and now that he had sunk beneath the surface he began to kickvigorously and work his hands to check his downward course.
　　A moment of this and he felt himself rising toward the surface. Philwas as good a swimmer as he was a performer in the circus ring, and hefelt no nervousness, even though his position at that moment was aperilous one.
　　Almost at once he felt his head above the surface of the river, but hiseyes were so full of muddy water that he could see nothing at all. Insteadof trying to swim, Phil lay over on his back, floated and began blinkingindustriously to get the water out of his eyes. He soon found that hecould see once more, though at that moment there was nothing to be seenin the blackness of the night.
　　"There's the 'Marie,'" he cried. Phil raised his voice in a good lustyhowl for help, but none heard him. He could see the lights of thesteamboat and they appeared to be far away.
　　"There is only one thing left for me to do, and that is to strike out forthe shore. I wonder which way the shore is?"Once more he raised himself in the water, for an instant, and gazedtoward the rapidly disappearing lights of the 'Marie.'
　　"She is going downstream, so if I swim to the left I should reach shoreafter a while," decided the lad.
　　He did not know that the boat had in the meantime made a sharp turnto her right and that in turning to the left he would be swimmingdownstream, making his attempt to reach shore a difficult one indeed.
　　The lad struck out manfully, swimming with long, easy strokes, aidedconsiderably by the current which was sweeping him downstream muchfaster than he thought.
　　"I'm glad I have only my pajamas on," decided the lad. "If I had allmy clothes on I fear I should have a pretty tough fight. It's bad enough asit is."Talking to himself, in order to keep up his courage, he swam steadilyon, now and then pausing to swim on his back to rest himself. He hadgone on for nearly an hour when the lad began to wonder why he had notreached shore.
　　"Surely the river cannot be so wide at this point. I must have drifteddownstream considerably. Perhaps I haven't been going in the rightdirection at all."He tried to find out which way the drift was, in order to make up hismind as to the direction in which the shore lay. In the darkness, however,he was unable to determine this, so he began swimming again, trusting toluck to land him on something solid, sooner or later. He knew that thismust occur, but whether his strength would hold out that long he could notsay.
　　All at once he caught a peculiar drumming sound. It reminded himof a partridge that he had once heard in the woods, but it seemed a longway off and he could not identify it.
　　"I guess it must be my heart, up somewhere near my mouth, that Ihear," said the boy with a short mindless laugh. "Maybe I am going topieces. If I am I deserve to drown."About that time Phil decided to turn over on his back and rest for amoment.
　　The instant he did so he uttered a sharp exclamation. His eyes caughtsight of something that he had not seen before. It looked to him likesome giant shadow, from which twinkled hundreds of lights.
　　"It is the 'Marie'!" cried the boy. "They are coming back for me.
　　No, no, it cannot be the 'Marie,' for this boat is coming from the oppositedirection. Yes, it surely is a steamboat!"Though Phil did not know it, this was one of the big river packetsbound down the river from St. Louis.
　　"I must get out of the way, or they will run me down, but I want tokeep close enough so I can hail them. I hope this is where I get onsomething solid again."A few minutes of steady swimming appeared to have taken him out ofthe path of the river boat. Then Phil rested, lying on his back, watchingthe boat narrowly.
　　"In almost any other position or place, I might think that was a prettysight. As matters stand, now, it looks dangerous to me."His position was more perilous at that moment than he even dreamed.
　　"H-e-l-p! H-e-l-p!" called Phil, in what he thought was a loud tone.
　　There were no indications that his cry had been heard by those onboard the steamboat. He tried it again, but with no better success thanbefore.
　　"I have simply got to keep on yelling my lungs out until I attract theirattention. I am afraid I shall never reach shore unless I am picked up. Imight be able to keep afloat until daylight, but I doubt it. I shall get sochilled, before then, that I shall have to give up. I've got some fight leftin me yet, just the same.""A-h-o-y, boat! _Help!_"On came the steamer, steadily.
　　Suddenly Phil discovered something else. She had changed hercourse. The boat seemed to be drawing away from him! His heartsank, but almost at once, the boat turned again, following the tortuouschannel of the stream.
　　She now was sweeping almost directly down upon him. He heardsome call on the upper deck.
　　"They are going to run me down!" he gasped.
　　Phil threw all his strength into an effort to swim out of the path of theswiftly moving boat, but he feared he would not be able to clear her.
　　The lad uttered a loud shout, then dived deep, coming up at once onlyto find himself almost against the side of the moving craft.
　　He grabbed frantically, hoping that his hands might come in contactwith some projection to which he could cling, but the slippery sides of thehull slid past him at what seemed almost express train speed.
　　He was almost on the point of diving again to get away from thedangerous spot, when suddenly, his fingers closed over something. It wasa rope, one of the hawsers that had not been fully hauled in when the boatleft the last landing place some miles up the river.
　　With a glad cry, both the lad's hands closed over the precious rope.
　　His joy was short lived. He found himself dropping back, the river craftstill gliding past him.
　　The rope was paying out over the boat's side in his hands.
　　Phil Forrest was never more cool in his life, but he now began torealize the well-nigh hopeless position in which be found himself placed.
　　Suddenly the rope ceased paying out with an abruptness that jerkedhim clear out of the water. He fell back with a splash, all but losing holdof the rope as he did so.
　　"I've got it! I've got it!" exulted the lad. A rush of water filled hismouth, almost suffocating him.
　　"I guess I had better keep my mouth closed," thought the boy.
　　He was directly astern of the steamboat by this time, and this placedhim in a much more favorable position than he had been while draggingalong at the side.
　　Phil began resolutely to work himself along the rope hand over hand.
　　It was a desperate undertaking, one calling for strength and courage of anunusual kind, but he never hesitated. His breath came in long, steady,sighs, for he was going though the water at such a rate of speed thatbreathing was made doubly difficult.
　　"It is a good thing I am a circus performer. I should probably havebeen at the bottom of the river long ago, had I not been a ring man."At last, after what seemed hours of struggling, he had succeeded inworking his way past the stern paddle wheel, and up under the stern of theship. He twisted the rope about one arm, and with his head well out ofwater lay half exhausted while he was shot through the water at highspeed.
　　A few minutes of this, and Phil, considerably rested, began to pullhimself up.
　　Ordinarily this hand over hand climb would have been an easy feat forthe Circus Boy. As it was, however, the lad was forced to pause everyfoot or so, and, twisting the rope about an arm and a leg, hang therebetween sky and water, gasping for breath, every nerve and muscle in hisbody a-quiver.
　　Few men, no matter how strong nor how great their endurance, couldhave gone through what Phil Forest had endured that night.
　　He was glad to be out of the water, where he was in imminent dangerof being drowned as the boat jerked him along. Of course he was notobliged to cling to the rope, but the chances of his reaching shore, were heto let go, he felt were very remote.
　　"I am glad Teddy is not here," muttered Phil with a half smile as hethought of his companion back on the "Marie" fast asleep. "I wonderwhat he will think when he finds that I am missing? I hope they do notturn about and come back to look for me, for I hardly think they will beable to do that and make their next stand in time."Once more the lad began pulling himself up the rope. At last, to hisgreat relief, his fingers closed over the stern rail of the river boat. Philpulled himself up as if he were chinning the bar, though in this case hechinned it only once.
　　Elbows were braced on the rail, then the right leg was thrown over andPhil Forrest was high and dry on the deck of a great river steamer, after anexperience that perhaps never had befallen a human being on theMississippi before.
　　He found himself standing face to face with an officer of the boat, whoproved to be the mate. The man was so astonished at the dripping figurethat had come over the stern, that, for the moment, he did not speak.
　　"Good evening," greeted Phil politely.
　　"Who are you?" demanded the mate sternly.
　　"I guess I am Old Neptune himself. Maybe I am a mermaid. Atleast I have just risen from the sea, and mighty glad I am that I haverisen."The officer seized Phil. Leading the boy to where the light shonefrom the main cabin window, he peered into the lad's face. Evidentlyfairly well satisfied by his brief glance into the honest eyes of the CircusBoy, the officer quickly turned and led Phil to the forward end of the boat,where he summoned the captain, who was lying down in the pilot house.
　　"What's this? Whom have you here?""I don't know, sir," answered the officer. "He came over the side halfa mile above here.""What--what's this--came over the side?""Yes, sir.""Impossible!""I saw him. I was standing astern when he climbed over the rail.""See here, young man, what does this mean?""I fell from a boat, sir, further up the river. I was trying to swimashore when you nearly ran me down. You see, I did not know you weregoing to make that sharp turn and I did not have time to get out of theway.""That is not a likely story, young man. How did you get aboard thisboat? That is what I want to know."Phil explained that he had caught hold of a rope.
　　"Is there a rope trailing, mate?""I don't know, sir.""Find out."The mate returned a few moments later with the information that ahawser was dragging astern.
　　"Wonderful!" breathed the captain. "How did you ever do it, and youonly a boy?""I am pretty strong, even if I am a boy," smiled Phil.
　　"What is your name?"Phil gave it.
　　"How did you happen to get in the river?""I told you I fell in, or something of the sort, from the 'Fat Marie.'""Never heard of her.""I think she was called the 'Mary Jane.'""Oh, that's that circus boat--the Sparling Circus?""Yes, sir.""Do you belong to the circus?""Yes. I am a bareback rider and a trapeze performer."Both men gazed at him with new interest.
　　"Well, you beat anything that I ever heard of. You certainly must be aperformer if you did a thing like that. I remember the pilot's telling mehe thought he heard someone cry out from the river, but as the call was notrepeated, he thought he must have been mistaken. Come in, and we willput you to bed.""I have no money with me, sir," said the lad. "If you will extend thecourtesies of your craft to me, I will see that you are well paid after I reachmy show once more.""We will take care of you. Never mind about the pay.""By the way, where is your next landing place?""Memphis."Phil gave a low whistle.
　　"Where do you want to go?""Corinth, I believe is the stand we show at tomorrow.""That's not far from Memphis. We will land you at Memphis in themorning and you can take a train back, getting you to Corinth in plenty oftime for your show. I will see that you have a ticket.""Thank you ever so much. You are very kind."The Circus Boy was put to bed and in a few minutes he was soundasleep, thus far not much the worse for his thrilling experience, though hewas completely exhausted, as he realized after he had tucked himself inhis berth.
Chapter 23 The Roman Chariot Races
It was late when the Circus Boy awoke next morning. A stewardrapped at the door and a suit of officer's clothes, brass buttons and all washanded in to him.
　　"With the captain's compliments, sir," said the steward. "He hopes itwill fit you. When you are ready, you will please come to the saloon forbreakfast.""Thank the captain for me, and say that I can't get there any too soon,"laughed Phil, springing out of bed.
　　The passengers had all heard the remarkable tale from the captain thatmorning, and they were anxious to see the young Circus Boy who hadperformed such a plucky act.
　　Phil entered the dining room, not thinking for a minute that he wouldbe recognized. When the passengers saw the handsome young fellow inan officer's uniform, they knew him. Everyone in the room sprang to hisfeet and three cheers rang out for Phil Forrest.
　　"Speech, speech!" cried someone.
　　Blushing faintly, Phil glanced about him.
　　"You cannot expect a boy to make much of a speech before breakfast,especially after he has been swimming most of the night. I don't knowthat I am entitled to any special credit. I saved only my own life, and Ido not expect to get a medal for it, either. I hope all of you will visitthe Great Sparling Shows at the first opportunity. Then I shall try toentertain you in a way that I understand far better than this. I'm verymuch obliged to you all."Then Phil sat down. The passengers gave him another cheer, louderand more enthusiastic than the first. Mr. Sparling would have been proudof the lad could he have heard that speech. Phil lost no opportunity toadvertise the Sparling shows, and every passenger on the boat, thatmorning, made up his mind to visit the show ere another week had passed.
　　All the rest of the morning Phil was a hero in the eyes of thepassengers, who followed him wherever he went, asking questions abouthis experience in the river, and how he had happened to fall in, as well asnumerous questions about the life of a circus man.
　　With regard to his accident, Phil had little to say. He seemed to wishto avoid discussing the falling-in matter, but his face took on a seriousexpression when it was referred to.
　　At last Memphis was sighted. Phil arranged with the captain toreturn the uniform, which he promised to send to St. Louis, so that hisbenefactor could get it on the return trip.
　　As the craft began drawing in toward the dock, the Circus Boy bade allthe passengers good-bye, everyone of whom insisted on shaking handswith him.
　　Phil walked off, the passengers giving him three cheers as he steppedover the gangplank to the dock. Before he had reached the end of it, hewas overtaken by a reporter who had just heard of Phil's feat and wishedan interview.
　　At first Phil was reluctant to speak.
　　"I think it will be a good advertisement for the show," he said tohimself. So the Circus Boy related, modestly, the story of hisexperience in the river and of his rescue of himself; not forgetting to saysome pleasant things about the Sparling shows, which would visitMemphis two days hence. That afternoon he saw his story set forth inthe Memphis newspaper. He bought two papers, one of which he tuckedin his pocket, sending the other to Mrs. Cahill, his guardian. His nextmove was to start for the station, to take a train for Corinth. He wasalready too late to reach that town in time for the afternoon performance,but he had wired Mr. Sparling that he was safe.
　　As it happened the lad reached the show grounds before his messagehad been delivered. Mr. Sparling, well nigh beside himself with worry,had telegraphed to all points passed by their boats, begging that neithereffort nor expense be spared to find his Circus Boy.
　　The showman was standing in front of his office tent, that afternoon, atabout three o'clock, his broad-brimmed slouch hat pulled well down overhis eyes, his hands thrust deep in his trousers pockets.
　　Off under the big top the band was playing a lively tune, and theside-show people were out in front sunning themselves, all discussing PhilForrest's mysterious disappearance.
　　After a short time, Mr. Sparling espied a young man in uniformcoming on the lot. He did not pay much attention to the stranger,thinking the fellow was a police officer or something of the sort.
　　As the young man drew nearer, however, the showman thought henoted something familiar in the springy step and the poise of the body.
　　"Now, who is that?" he muttered. "Somehow I seem to know thatyoungster."Others about the main entrance were also looking in his directionabout that time. Still no one seemed to recognize the young man.
　　All at once the showman tilted up the rim of his hat and gazed morekeenly.
　　"Phil!" he shouted, casting the hat aside and running forward withoutstretched arms. "It's Phil, it's Phil Forrest!"A moment more and Mr. James Sparling had clasped his little CircusBoy about the waist, hugging him delightedly. There was a suspiciousmoisture in the eyes of the showman, which he sought to hide from Phil.
　　"Phil! Phil! Where have you been?" he cried leading the boytoward the office tent. "And that uniform--what does it mean?""I will tell you all about it as soon as I get my breath," laughed the lad.
　　By this time the others out in front had hurried forward, showeringquestions upon the boy, all of which he answered without giving verymuch information. He wished to talk with Mr. Sparling first of all.
　　"Where is Teddy?" was almost his first question.
　　"He is in the big top at work.""I presume he was considerably excited when he missed me, was henot?""Yes, at first, but since then he has not said much. Teddy is a queerboy."The word was quickly passed that Phil had returned safe and sound,and ten minutes after his arrival every man and woman in the show hadheard the news. There was great rejoicing.
　　Teddy was going through his clown act when he first heard the rumorthat Phil was back. Teddy waited until he had worked around to theentrance to the menagerie tent when he suddenly darted through, leavinghis work and the ring, a most serious breach of discipline. Teddy,however, did not care. He was willing to be fined. He bolted throughthe main entrance like a miniature tornado, to the amazement of the doortenders.
　　"Where's Phil?" he shouted.
　　One of the doormen pointed to Mr. Sparling's office tent.
　　The little clown was off on a run.
　　"Hey, Phil, you old rascal! Where have you been?" he demanded,dashing into the small tent.
　　"I have been out for a swim, old fellow. Did you miss me?""I nearly broke my neck thinking about you this afternoon. Landedon my head in the leaping act, and I've got a pain in my neck yet.""Young man, what are you doing here?" demanded the showman,sternly.
　　"Same thing you are. Seeing Phil.""Get back to your act!""I'm off. I'll see you later, Phil, then we will talk it over.""We will, Teddy," and Teddy was off at top speed to take up hisperformance where he had so abruptly left it a few minutes before. Theringmaster had not missed him, though he saw at once that the boy wasnot on his station, when Teddy began to work again.
　　"Now, Phil, we will hear all about it. How in the name of theSparling shows did you get into that uniform?""The captain of the river boat that picked me up fitted me out.""So you really fell in?""I got _in,_ right.""Tell me all about it."The Circus Boy related his experiences from the time he found himselfin the river, until his arrival in Memphis that morning.
　　"Marvelous--almost unbelievable," breathed Mr. Sparling as the talewas unfolded. "I never heard anything to compare with it."When Phil told of his speech in the dining saloon of the riversteamboat, Mr. Sparling leaned back with hands on his hips, laughingimmoderately.
　　"Oh, Phil, you are the sort from which great showmen are made!"Phil handed over the Memphis paper with the account of hisexperience, which the showman glanced over briefly.
　　"That will give us another turn-away in Memphis. You can't stopthem, after that. They will come to the show even if they have to fighttheir way in. That was a great stroke of enterprise, but I would rather ithad not happened, of course.""What--the interview?""No, of course not. I mean your accident.""It is all right, Mr. Sparling. I am here now, and none the worse formy bath, but for a time I surely thought I was a goner. I would not care togo through that experience again.""I should say not. Yours was the most wonderful escape I ever heardof. I'll wager there was never anything like it before on this river."Mr. Sparling paused suddenly and bent a keen, searching glance onPhil Forrest's face. The lad felt that he knew what was in the mind of hisemployer.
　　"Phil?""Yes, sir.""You have not told me everything, yet.""What makes you think that, Mr. Sparling?""Because I know you so well. There is something on your mind thatyou have not told me. I want to know what it is."Phil's eyes were lowered to the green grass at his feet. For a momenthe was silent and thoughtful.
　　"What is it you wish me to tell you, Mr. Sparling?" he asked in a lowvoice.
　　"You have not given me a satisfactory explanation of how you came toget into the river.""Perhaps I fell in," answered the lad with a faint smile.
　　"Perhaps. But you have not said so. I want you to tell me how youdid get in.""I think I was thrown in, Mr. Sparling," answered the Circus Boyquickly.
　　"Thrown in!" exclaimed the showman, leaping to his feet, his faceworking convulsively in his effort to control his emotions. "Phil Forrest,do you mean that?""I do."Mr. Sparling sat down helplessly.
　　"Is it possible?""I am sure of it, sir.""Had anyone but you told me that I should have laughed. I know Ican depend upon what you say. Tell me more about it?""As I have already said, I was leaning on the rail and dropped off intoa doze. How long I had been in that position I do not know. I could nothave been there many minutes, or I should have gone so soundly asleepthat I would have fallen over to the deck, you know.""Yes, yes.""All at once I felt myself being lifted. At first, as I remember it, thesensation was as if the deck were dropping from under me. As I recalledthe incident afterwards, I realized that I had been lifted. You know allthat occurred after that.""Was there more than one who threw you overboard?""I am unable to say. I did not even see one," said Phil with a half-smile. "I felt myself being lifted--that's all. The next minute I was inthe river, with the 'Marie' pounding away downstream at a lively clip.""Dastardly! Dastardly!" growled the showman. "I shall send for adetective to meet us in Memphis tomorrow. This thing has gone farenough.""I think I agree with you, sir," was Phil's half-humorous answer. "But Ihad been in hopes of solving this mystery myself.""Yes, and you came near losing your life as the result. No, sir!
　　This thing must be cleared up at once. I shall wire to St. Louis now, andwe will have a man with us sometime tomorrow. Say nothing to anyone ofmy plan. The detective will join the show in some capacity or other,and have regular duties to perform. You will know him, but no one elsewill except myself. I think the Roman races are about due under thebig top now. Suppose you go in and change your clothes, joining me atmy table after you come out. We will talk these matters over at lengththis evening. When the officer reaches here I shall expect you to tell himfreely all that you know as well as what you suspect. Keep nothingfrom him. Run along, Phil. I want to think this matter over by myselffor a few minutes."As Phil entered the big top the Roman races were just coming on.
　　The chariot drivers, with their prancing steeds, had entered the arena.
　　Phil paused to wait until the fast and furious races were over. Theleading woman chariot driver was trying out a new three-horse team; thatis, two of the horses were new to the work, the third, being an old hand.
　　The new animals were spirited, and after the first round of the arena, Philsaw that they were nervous.
　　"I am afraid she is going to have trouble with that pair," muttered Philwith a shake of his head. "If she can keep them up to the mark, they willoutrun anything in the show today."The new team fairly tore around the arena. They won the first raceseasily, then lined up in the center to await the finals which were to followa few minutes later.
　　The ringmaster's whistle trilled for the successful drivers to swing outinto the concourse. They were driving furiously, almost before theechoes of the whistle had died away.
　　Making the turn at the lower end of the track in safety, the two teamsin the race squared away down the home stretch. All at once Phil sawthat something was wrong. The leading chariot was swaying dizzily, andthe driver was trying with all her strength to pull the plunging animalsdown.
　　Suddenly the wheel on the inner side slipped from its axle and wentrolling off into the center of the arena. The axle dropped to the turf,caught, then turned the chariot bottom side up.
　　The woman driver was hurled off into the center in the wake of thecareening wheel, landing on her head and shoulders beside the centerplatform.
　　The team did not stop, however. It started directly across the arena,in a diagonal course.
　　"She is hurt!" cried Phil. "Somebody will be killed unless that wildteam is stopped!"Giving no thought to the danger to himself, Phil Forrest darted acrossthe arena and leaped for the bridles of the plunging, frightened animals.
Conclusion
It seemed a foolhardy thing to do, but Phil understood exactly how togo about it. If he were able to turn the team, he would undoubtedly savethem from plunging into the seats where hundreds of people were sitting.
　　A trained circus horse always will avoid the spectators, but there is noaccounting for what a green animal will do.
　　Grasping the bit of the animal nearest to him, Phil threw his wholeweight into the effort. To his intense satisfaction the team swerved, halfturned and dashed across the arena again. This time, however, they didnot go far. The outfit smashed into the main center pole, and Phil wenton, sitting down violently in the middle of the concourse, unhurt, but moreor less shaken up.
　　By that time ring attendants had caught the frightened horses. Alldanger was over.
　　Phil Forrest was loudly cheered by the spectators, but his borrowedofficer's uniform was a hopeless wreck. It was torn beyond anypossibility of repair.
　　Upon investigation, which Phil made at once, he found that the capthat held the chariot wheel in place, had been removed. No trace of itever was found, and Phil well knew that the mysterious enemy was oncemore at work. The news was conveyed to Mr. Sparling, with theinformation that Phil had gleaned.
　　He also bore the unwelcome tidings to his employer that their leadingwoman chariot driver had broken both arms and that she would notperform again that season, if ever again.
　　Mr. Sparling was so angered over this latest outrage that he wasscarcely able to control himself. Yet he knew that it would be best tomaintain silence until the detective had had an opportunity to make aninvestigation. Some of the circus people, however, had voiced asuspicion that the accident was a deliberate attempt to do the show aninjury, and this was quickly passed from lip to lip, until almost everyonehad heard it. The show people accepted the situation quietly, as wastheir wont, nevertheless they were very much excited. There was notelling when they themselves might fall victims to the mysterious enemy,and each one vowed to run down the scoundrel who they knew must be amember of the circus family.
　　Phil made some guarded inquiries, but was unable to learn whether ornot anyone had been observed about the chariots that day. The hub cap,of course, might have been removed while the chariots were still on theboat, but in that event its loss would no doubt have been noticed, for thecaps were of brass, large and prominent.
　　Phil decided that the act must have been committed just before thechariots were driven into the arena for the Roman races.
　　In this, Phil Forrest was right.
　　The solution of the mystery was at hand, however, and was to come ina most unexpected manner.
　　Supper had been eaten, and most of the performers were out on the lot,enjoying the balmy air of the early evening for the few moments left tothem before they would be obliged to repair to the dressing tent to makeready for the evening performance.
　　Phil decided to go in, after finishing a talk with Mr. Sparling in thelatter's private tent. As the lad passed through the menagerie tent theattendants were lighting the gasoline lamps there and hauling them up thecenter poles.
　　Under the big top, however, one could not see half its length. Thelights there would not be turned on for fifteen or twenty minutes yet. Nota person was in sight as Phil entered the tent, making his way slowly downthe concourse. He paused half-way down, seating himself on agrandstand chair in one of the arena boxes, where he thought over thelatest exploit of the show's enemy.
　　"This time they were not after me, but after the outfit itself," hemuttered. "That is the time the fellow showed his hand, and it gives mean idea. I--hello, there is someone who acts as if he did not wish to beseen."Phil sat still and watched. Someone had slipped in under the tentdown at the other end, directly across the arena from where the bandstandwas located. It had now become so dark in the tent that Phil could notmake out the fellow's features. In fact, the man was a mere shadow.
　　"I wonder what he is doing there?"Then a thought struck Phil Forrest like a blow.
　　"That's where they put the big net between performances."Phil crept down into the arena and made his way back to the entranceto the menagerie tent, where he quickly slipped out into the open and randown along the outside of the big top at his best speed. As he drewnear the spot where he had seen the man, he moved cautiously.
　　Finally Phil dropped down and peered under the tent. He was lessthan ten feet from where the fellow was at work. The Circus Boy couldcatch a "rip, rip" now and then.
　　"The fiend is cutting the net," he muttered. "I wonder who he is.
　　Ah, I know him now! He is one of the tent men. I never thought hewas in this thing. I must catch him--I must make the attempt, for he mayget away. I don't even know the fellow's name, nor do I understand hisenmity toward the show or myself."Phil wriggled in under the tent, now, not fearing discovery, for insidethe tent, it was quite dark. Slowly raising himself to his feet, he edgednearer, step by step, to where the man was at work. The man had partlyspread the net out by this time, to make sure that he was cutting it in theright place so that it would give way beneath the weight of the performerunfortunate enough to drop into it first.
　　"The fiend!" repeated Phil, clenching his fists. "I'm glad I am the oneto discover him. Mr. Man, I have a score to settle with you and I'm goingto begin the settling up now."Phil crouched low. He was now only a few feet from the stoopingfigure.
　　All at once the boy threw himself forward. He landed on the man,forcing him to the ground. As he struck, Phil raised his voice in theshowmen's rallying cry.
　　"_Hey, Rube!_" he shouted in a sing-song voice that was heard in thedressing tents and even out in the menagerie tent.
　　His first care, then, was to pinion the man so he could not use hishands, for the Circus Boy knew that his captive had a knife in one hand.
　　Men came running from all directions, Mr. Sparling among thenumber, for he had been in the menagerie tent when the cry reached him,and feared some fresh trouble was at hand.
　　"What is it? Where is it?" roared the showman.
　　"Here, here! Bring lights. Bring--"The man beneath him began to struggle. In fact the fellow staggeredto his feet, the boy being too light to hold him down.
　　Phil grabbed him about the waist, pinioning the man's arms to hissides. Then began a desperate struggle, during which the combatants fellto the ground, rolling over and over in their fierce battle.
　　"It's Phil Forrest!" shouted the owner.
　　He sprang forward and with a mighty tug, jerked the tentman free ofthe Circus Boy's body. At that instant the fellow leaped to his feet andstarted to run.
　　"Stop him!" howled Phil.
　　Teddy, who had come running up, suddenly stooped over andconstituting himself a battering ram, ran full tilt into the tentman, the boy'shead landing in the pit of the circus hand's stomach. The fellow wentdown, whereupon Teddy promptly sat on him until the others reachedthe scene.
　　"Now, what does this mean?" demanded the showman sternly.
　　"It means that I caught this fellow cutting the net. If you will look atit you will find it to be badly mutilated, I think." An examination provedthat Phil was right. Mr. Sparling had all he could do to prevent the angrycircus men from wreaking their vengeance on the wretch then and there.
　　Teddy, in the meantime, had been peering into the man's face.
　　"I know him! I know him!" howled the Circus Boy, dancing about.
　　"You know him?""Yes, do you remember Bad Eye who was mixed up with Red Larry,the fellow we sent to jail two or three seasons ago?""Yes.""That's Bad Eye," pointing to the prisoner, "and he is bad medicine,besides.""Is it possible?" muttered Phil, a new light breaking over him.
　　Suddenly Teddy uttered a yell.
　　"I've got him! He's the fellow who stole my egg." Teddy made adive for the prisoner, but strong hands pulled him away.
　　Bad Eye, it developed, smarting under the punishment that had beenmeted out to his companion, had once more joined the show, determinedupon revenge. He had in the meantime grown a full beard, so that no onerecognized him. Now, Phil Forrest knew why the voice was dimlyfamiliar to him when he had heard it that night out on the lot.
　　Caught red-handed, Bad Eye made a full confession. And to thesurprise of everyone, he implicated Manuel, the assistant to the Spanishclown. Bad Eye admitted having thrown Phil Forrest overboard, as well.
　　He denied having stolen Tucker's egg, placing the full responsibility forthis on the shoulders of Manuel.
　　What was done with the egg was never known, though Manuel wasbelieved to have thrown it overboard. Diaz, after his one violentoutbreak, had made no further evil attempts.
　　Bad Eye and Manuel were tried and convicted in due time, and placedwhere they would do the show no further harm.
　　The show went on, and after several successful weeks, reached NewOrleans, where the final performance of the season was given. All handsthen turned their faces northward. Teddy and Phil decided to take asteamship for New York, thence proceeding to their home by train. Eachlad was a few thousand dollars richer than when he had joined out in thespring.
　　They waved their adieus to Mr. Sparling from the deck of an oceansteamer next morning as the big ship slowly poked its nose out into thegulf.
　　"You can't down the Circus Boys," said Phil, with a pleased smile asthey leaned over the rail.
　　"At least, not this season," added Teddy.
　　But the exciting experiences of the Circus Boys were not yet at an end.
　　The lads will be heard from further in another volume, under the title:
　　"THE CIRCUS BOYS ON THE PLAINS; Or, The Young Advance AgentsAhead of the Show."In this forthcoming volume the lads pass through a phase of circus lifenever experienced by them before. They will find, too, that all the thrillsof the circus life are not confined to the sawdust arena, but that there isevery whit as much excitement and real peril in the daily life of theadvance man on the advertising car ahead of the show.
The End
