Chapter 1 Expert Opinions
"With apologies to gent opposite," said Clowes, "I must say I don'tthink much of the team.""Don't apologise to _me_," said Allardyce disgustedly, as hefilled the teapot, "I think they're rotten.""They ought to have got into form by now, too," said Trevor. "It's notas if this was the first game of the term.""First game!" Allardyce laughed shortly. "Why, we've only got a coupleof club matches and the return match with Ripton to end the season. Itis about time they got into form, as you say."Clowes stared pensively into the fire.
　　"They struck me," he said, "as the sort of team who'd get into formsomewhere in the middle of the cricket season.""That's about it," said Allardyce. "Try those biscuits, Trevor. They'reabout the only good thing left in the place.""School isn't what it was?" inquired Trevor, plunging a hand into thetin that stood on the floor beside him.
　　"No," said Allardyce, "not only in footer but in everything. The placeseems absolutely rotten. It's bad enough losing all our matches, ornearly all. Did you hear that Ripton took thirty-seven points off uslast term? And we only just managed to beat Greenburgh by a try tonil.""We got thirty points last year," he went on. "Thirty-three, andforty-two the year before. Why, we've always simply walked them. It'san understood thing that we smash them. And this year they held us allthe time, and it was only a fluke that we scored at all. Their backmiskicked, and let Barry in.""Barry struck me as the best of the outsides today," said Clowes. "He'sheavier than he was, and faster.""He's all right," agreed Allardyce. "If only the centres would feedhim, we might do something occasionally. But did you ever see such apair of rotters?""The man who was marking me certainly didn't seem particularlybrilliant. I don't even know his name. He didn't do anything at footerin my time," said Trevor.
　　"He's a chap called Attell. He wasn't here with you. He came after thesummer holidays. I believe he was sacked from somewhere. He's no good,but there's nobody else. Colours have been simply a gift this year toanyone who can do a thing. Only Barry and myself left from last year'steam. I never saw such a clearance as there was after the summer term.""Where are the boys of the Old Brigade?" sighed Clowes.
　　"I don't know. I wish they were here," said Allardyce.
　　Trevor and Clowes had come down, after the Easter term had been inprogress for a fortnight, to play for an Oxford A team against theschool. The match had resulted in an absurdly easy victory for thevisitors by over forty points. Clowes had scored five tries off his ownbat, and Trevor, if he had not fed his wing so conscientiously, wouldprobably have scored an equal number. As it was, he had got throughtwice, and also dropped a goal. The two were now having a late tea withAllardyce in his study. Allardyce had succeeded Trevor as Captain ofFootball at Wrykyn, and had found the post anything but a sinecure.
　　For Wrykyn had fallen for the time being on evil days. It wasexperiencing the reaction which so often takes place in a school in theyear following a season of exceptional athletic prosperity. With Trevoras captain of football, both the Ripton matches had been won, and alsothree out of the four other school matches. In cricket the eleven hadhad an even finer record, winning all their school matches, andlikewise beating the M.C.C. and Old Wrykinians. It was too early toprophesy concerning the fortunes of next term's cricket team, but, ifthey were going to resemble the fifteen, Wrykyn was doomed to the worstathletic year it had experienced for a decade.
　　"It's a bit of a come-down after last season, isn't it?" resumedAllardyce, returning to his sorrows. It was a relief to him to discusshis painful case without restraint.
　　"We were a fine team last year," agreed Clowes, "and especially strongon the left wing. By the way, I see you've moved Barry across.""Yes. Attell can't pass much, but he passes better from right to leftthan from left to right; so, Barry being our scoring man, I shifted himacross. The chap on the other wing, Stanning, isn't bad at times. Doyou remember him? He's in Appleby's. Then Drummond's useful at half.""Jolly useful," said Trevor. "I thought he would be. I recommended youlast year to keep your eye on him.""Decent chap, Drummond," said Clowes.
　　"About the only one there is left in the place," observed Allardycegloomily.
　　"Our genial host," said Clowes, sawing at the cake, "appears to havethat tired feeling. He seems to have lost that _joie de vivre_ ofhis, what?""It must be pretty sickening," said Trevor sympathetically. "I'm glad Iwasn't captain in a bad year.""The rummy thing is that the worse they are, the more side they stickon. You see chaps who wouldn't have been in the third in a good yearwalking about in first fifteen blazers, and first fifteen scarves, andfirst fifteen stockings, and sweaters with first fifteen colours roundthe edges. I wonder they don't tattoo their faces with first fifteencolours.""It would improve some of them," said Clowes.
　　Allardyce resumed his melancholy remarks. "But, as I was saying, it'snot only that the footer's rotten. That you can't help, I suppose. It'sthe general beastliness of things that I bar. Rows with the town, forinstance. We've been having them on and off ever since you left. Andit'll be worse now, because there's an election coming off soon. Areyou fellows stopping for the night in the town? If so, I should adviseyou to look out for yourselves.""Thanks," said Clowes. "I shouldn't like to see Trevor sand-bagged. Norindeed, should I--for choice--care to be sand-bagged myself. But, as ithappens, the good Donaldson is putting us up, so we escape the perilsof the town.
　　"Everybody seems so beastly slack now," continued Allardyce. "It'sconsidered the thing. You're looked on as an awful blood if you say youhaven't done a stroke of work for a week. I shouldn't mind that so muchif they were some good at anything. But they can't do a thing. Thefooter's rotten, the gymnasium six is made up of kids an inch high--weshall probably be about ninetieth at the Public Schools'
　　Competition--and there isn't any one who can play racquets for nuts.
　　The only thing that Wrykyn'll do this year is to get the Light-Weightsat Aldershot. Drummond ought to manage that. He won the Feathers lasttime. He's nearly a stone heavier now, and awfully good. But he's theonly man we shall send up, I expect. Now that O'Hara and Moriarty areboth gone, he's the only chap we have who's up to Aldershot form. Andnobody else'll take the trouble to practice. They're all too slack.""In fact," said Clowes, getting up, "as was only to be expected, theschool started going to the dogs directly I left. We shall have to bepushing on now, Allardyce. We promised to look in on Seymour before wewent to bed. Friend let us away.""Good night," said Allardyce.
　　"What you want," said Clowes solemnly, "is a liver pill. You arelooking on life too gloomily. Take a pill. Let there be no stint. Taketwo. Then we shall hear your merry laugh ringing through the oldcloisters once more. Buck up and be a bright and happy lad, Allardyce.""Take more than a pill to make me that," growled that souredfootballer.
　　Mr Seymour's views on the school resembled those of Allardyce. Wrykyn,in his opinion, was suffering from a reaction.
　　"It's always the same," he said, "after a very good year. Boys leave,and it's hard to fill their places. I must say I did not expect quitesuch a clearing out after the summer. We have had bad luck in that way.
　　Maurice, for instance, and Robinson both ought to have had another yearat school. It was quite unexpected, their leaving. They would have madeall the difference to the forwards. You must have somebody to lead thepack who has had a little experience of first fifteen matches.""But even then" said Clowes, "they oughtn't to be so rank as they werethis afternoon. They seemed such slackers.""I'm afraid that's the failing of the school just now," agreed MrSeymour. "They don't play themselves out. They don't put just that lastounce into their work which makes all the difference."Clowes thought of saying that, to judge by appearances, they did notput in even the first ounce; but refrained. However low an opinion agames' master may have--and even express--of his team, he does not likepeople to agree too cordially with his criticisms.
　　"Allardyce seems rather sick about it," said Trevor.
　　"I am sorry for Allardyce. It is always unpleasant to be the onlysurvivor of an exceptionally good team. He can't forget last year'smatches, and suffers continual disappointments because the present teamdoes not play up to the same form.""He was saying something about rows with the town," said Trevor, aftera pause.
　　"Yes, there has certainly been some unpleasantness lately. It is thepenalty we pay for being on the outskirts of a town. Four years out offive nothing happens. But in the fifth, when the school has got alittle out of hand--""Oh, then it really _has_ got out of hand?" asked Clowes.
　　"Between ourselves, yes," admitted Mr Seymour.
　　"What sort of rows?" asked Trevor.
　　Mr Seymour couldn't explain exactly. Nothing, as it were, definite--asyet. No actual complaints so far. But still--well, trouble--yes,trouble.
　　"For instance," he said, "a boy in my house, Linton--you rememberhim?--is moving in society at this moment with a swollen lip and minusa front tooth. Of course, I know nothing about it, but I fancy he gotinto trouble in the town. That is merely a straw which shows how thewind is blowing, but if you lived on the spot you would see more what Imean. There is trouble in the air. And now that this election is comingon, I should not wonder if things came to a head. I can't remember asingle election in Wrykyn when there was not disorder in the town. Andif the school is going to join in, as it probably will, I shall not besorry when the holidays come. I know the headmaster is only waiting foran excuse to put the town out of bounds.'
　　"But the kids have always had a few rows on with that school in theHigh Street--what's it's name--St Something?" said Clowes.
　　"Jude's," supplied Trevor.
　　"St Jude's!" said Mr Seymour. "Have they? I didn't know that.""Oh yes. I don't know how it started, but it's been going on for two orthree years now. It's a School House feud really, but Dexter's aremixed up in it somehow. If a School House fag goes down town he runslike an antelope along the High Street, unless he's got one or twofriends with him. I saved dozens of kids from destruction when I was atschool. The St Jude's fellows lie in wait, and dash out on them. I usedto find School House fags fighting for their lives in back alleys. Theenemy fled on my approach. My air of majesty overawed them.""But a junior school feud matters very little," said Mr Seymour. "Yousay it has been going on for three years; and I have never heard of ittill now. It is when the bigger fellows get mixed up with the town thatwe have to interfere. I wish the headmaster would put the place out ofbounds entirely until the election is over. Except at election time,the town seems to go to sleep.""That's what we ought to be doing," said Clowes to Trevor. "I think wehad better be off now, sir. We promised Mr Donaldson to be in some timetonight.""It's later than I thought," said Mr Seymour. "Good night, Clowes. Howmany tries was it that you scored this afternoon? Five? I wish you werestill here, to score them for instead of against us. Good night,Trevor. I was glad to see they tried you for Oxford, though you didn'tget your blue. You'll be in next year all right. Good night."The two Old Wrykinians walked along the road towards Donaldson's. Itwas a fine night, but misty.
　　"Jove, I'm quite tired," said Clowes. "Hullo!""What's up?"They were opposite Appleby's at the moment. Clowes drew him into theshadow of the fence.
　　"There's a chap breaking out. I saw him shinning down a rope. Let'swait, and see who it is."A moment later somebody ran softly through the gateway and disappeareddown the road that led to the town.
　　"Who was it?" said Trevor. "I couldn't see.""I spotted him all right. It was that chap who was marking me today,Stanning. Wonder what he's after. Perhaps he's gone to tar the statue,like O'Hara. Rather a sportsman.""Rather a silly idiot," said Trevor. "I hope he gets caught.""You always were one of those kind sympathetic chaps," said Clowes.
　　"Come on, or Donaldson'll be locking us out."
Chapter 2 Sheen At Home
On the afternoon following the Oxford A match, Sheen, of Seymour's, wassitting over the gas-stove in his study with a Thucydides. He had beenstaying in that day with a cold. He was always staying in. Everyone hashis hobby. That was Sheen's.
　　Nobody at Wrykyn, even at Seymour's, seemed to know Sheen very well,with the exception of Drummond; and those who troubled to think aboutthe matter at all rather wondered what Drummond saw in him. To thesuperficial observer the two had nothing in common. Drummond was goodat games--he was in the first fifteen and the second eleven, and hadwon the Feather Weights at Aldershot--and seemed to have no interestsoutside them. Sheen, on the other hand, played fives for the house, andthat was all. He was bad at cricket, and had given up football byspecial arrangement with Allardyce, on the plea that he wanted all histime for work. He was in for an in-school scholarship, the Gotford.
　　Allardyce, though professing small sympathy with such a degradedambition, had given him a special dispensation, and since then Sheenhad retired from public life even more than he had done hitherto. Theexamination for the Gotford was to come off towards the end of theterm.
　　The only other Wrykinians with whom Sheen was known to be friendly wereStanning and Attell, of Appleby's. And here those who troubled to thinkabout it wondered still more, for Sheen, whatever his other demerits,was not of the type of Stanning and Attell. There are certain membersof every public school, just as there are certain members of everycollege at the universities, who are "marked men". They have never beendetected in any glaring breach of the rules, and their manner towardsthe powers that be is, as a rule, suave, even deferential. Yet it isone of the things which everybody knows, that they are in the blackbooks of the authorities, and that sooner or later, in the picturesquephrase of the New Yorker, they will "get it in the neck". To this classStanning and Attell belonged. It was plain to all that the former wasthe leading member of the firm. A glance at the latter was enough toshow that, whatever ambitions he may have had in the direction ofvillainy, he had not the brains necessary for really satisfactoryevildoing. As for Stanning, he pursued an even course of life, alwaysrigidly obeying the eleventh commandment, "thou shalt not be foundout". This kept him from collisions with the authorities; while a readytongue and an excellent knowledge of the art of boxing--he was, afterDrummond, the best Light-Weight in the place--secured him at leasttolerance at the hand of the school: and, as a matter of fact, thoughmost of those who knew him disliked him, and particularly those who,like Drummond, were what Clowes had called the Old Brigade, he had,nevertheless, a tolerably large following. A first fifteen man, even ina bad year, can generally find boys anxious to be seen about with him.
　　That Sheen should have been amongst these surprised one or two people,notably Mr Seymour, who, being games' master had come a good deal intocontact with Stanning, and had not been favourably impressed. The factwas that the keynote of Sheen's character was a fear of giving offence.
　　Within limits this is not a reprehensible trait in a person'scharacter, but Sheen overdid it, and it frequently complicated hisaffairs. There come times when one has to choose which of two peopleone shall offend. By acting in one way, we offend A. By acting in theopposite way, we annoy B. Sheen had found himself faced by this problemwhen he began to be friendly with Drummond. Their acquaintance, begunover a game of fives, had progressed. Sheen admired Drummond, as thetype of what he would have liked to have been, if he could have managedit. And Drummond felt interested in Sheen because nobody knew muchabout him. He was, in a way, mysterious. Also, he played the pianoreally well; and Drummond at that time would have courted anybody whocould play for his benefit "Mumblin' Mose", and didn't mind obligingwith unlimited encores.
　　So the two struck up an alliance, and as Drummond hated Stanning only ashade less than Stanning hated him, Sheen was under the painfulnecessity of choosing between them. He chose Drummond. Whereby heundoubtedly did wisely.
　　Sheen sat with his Thucydides over the gas-stove, and tried to interesthimself in the doings of the Athenian expedition at Syracuse. His brainfelt heavy and flabby. He realised dimly that this was because he tooktoo little exercise, and he made a resolution to diminish his hours ofwork per diem by one, and to devote that one to fives. He would mentionit to Drummond when he came in. He would probably come in to tea. Theboard was spread in anticipation of a visit from him. Herbert, theboot-boy, had been despatched to the town earlier in the afternoon, andhad returned with certain food-stuffs which were now stacked in anappetising heap on the table.
　　Sheen was just making something more or less like sense out of aninvolved passage of Nikias' speech, in which that eminent generalhimself seemed to have only a hazy idea of what he was talking about,when the door opened.
　　He looked up, expecting to see Drummond, but it was Stanning. He feltinstantly that "warm shooting" sensation from which David Copperfieldsuffered in moments of embarrassment. Since the advent of Drummond hehad avoided Stanning, and he could not see him without feelinguncomfortable. As they were both in the sixth form, and sat within acouple of yards of one another every day, it will be realised that hewas frequently uncomfortable.
　　"Great Scott!" said Stanning, "swotting?"Sheen glanced almost guiltily at his Thucydides. Still, it wassomething of a relief that the other had not opened the conversationwith an indictment of Drummond.
　　"You see," he said apologetically, "I'm in for the Gotford.""So am _I_. What's the good of swotting, though? I'm not going todo a stroke."As Stanning was the only one of his rivals of whom he had any realfear, Sheen might have replied with justice that, if that was the case,the more he swotted the better. But he said nothing. He looked at thestove, and dog's-eared the Thucydides.
　　"What a worm you are, always staying in!" said Stanning.
　　"I caught a cold watching the match yesterday.""You're as flabby as--" Stanning looked round for a simile, "as adough-nut. Why don't you take some exercise?""I'm going to play fives, I think. I do need some exercise.""Fives? Why don't you play footer?""I haven't time. I want to work.""What rot. I'm not doing a stroke."Stanning seemed to derive a spiritual pride from this admission.
　　"Tell you what, then," said Stanning, "I'll play you tomorrow afterschool."Sheen looked a shade more uncomfortable, but he made an effort, anddeclined the invitation.
　　"I shall probably be playing Drummond," he said.
　　"Oh, all right," said Stanning. "_I_ don't care. Play whom youlike."There was a pause.
　　"As a matter of fact," resumed Stanning, "what I came here for was totell you about last night. I got out, and went to Mitchell's. Whydidn't you come? Didn't you get my note? I sent a kid with it."Mitchell was a young gentleman of rich but honest parents, who had leftthe school at Christmas. He was in his father's office, and lived inhis father's house on the outskirts of the town. From time to time hisfather went up to London on matters connected with business, leavinghim alone in the house. On these occasions Mitchell the younger wouldwrite to Stanning, with whom when at school he had been on friendlyterms; and Stanning, breaking out of his house after everybody had goneto bed, would make his way to the Mitchell residence, and spend apleasant hour or so there. Mitchell senior owned Turkish cigarettes anda billiard table. Stanning appreciated both. There was also a piano,and Stanning had brought Sheen with him one night to play it. Thegetting-out and the subsequent getting-in had nearly whitened Sheen'shair, and it was only by a series of miracles that he had escapeddetection. Once, he felt, was more than enough; and when a fag fromAppleby's had brought him Stanning's note, containing an invitation toa second jaunt of the kind, he had refused to be lured into thebusiness again.
　　"Yes, I got the note," he said.
　　"Then why didn't you come? Mitchell was asking where you were.""It's so beastly risky.""Risky! Rot.""We should get sacked if we were caught.""Well, don't get caught, then."Sheen registered an internal vow that he would not.
　　"He wanted us to go again on Monday. Will you come?""I--don't think I will, Stanning," said Sheen. "It isn't worth it.""You mean you funk it. That's what's the matter with you.""Yes, I do," admitted Sheen.
　　As a rule--in stories--the person who owns that he is afraid getsunlimited applause and adulation, and feels a glow of conscious merit.
　　But with Sheen it was otherwise. The admission made him if possible,more uncomfortable than he had been before.
　　"Mitchell will be sick," said Stanning.
　　Sheen said nothing.
　　Stanning changed the subject.
　　"Well, at anyrate," he said, "give us some tea. You seem to have beenvictualling for a siege.""I'm awfully sorry," said Sheen, turning a deeper shade of red andexperiencing a redoubled attack of the warm shooting, "but the fact is,I'm waiting for Drummond."Stanning got up, and expressed his candid opinion of Drummond in a fewwords.
　　He said more. He described Sheen, too in unflattering terms.
　　"Look here," he said, "you may think it jolly fine to drop me justbecause you've got to know Drummond a bit, but you'll be sick enoughthat you've done it before you've finished.""It isn't that--" began Sheen.
　　"I don't care what it is. You slink about trying to avoid me all day,and you won't do a thing I ask you to do.""But you see--""Oh, shut up," said Stanning.
Chapter 3 Sheen Receives Visitors And Advice
While Sheen had been interviewing Stanning, in study twelve, fartherdown the passage, Linton and his friend Dunstable, who was in Day'shouse, were discussing ways and means. Like Stanning, Dunstable haddemanded tea, and had been informed that there was none for him.
　　"Well, you are a bright specimen, aren't you?" said Dunstable, seatinghimself on the table which should have been groaning under the weightof cake and biscuits. "I should like to know where you expect to go to.
　　You lure me in here, and then have the cheek to tell me you haven't gotanything to eat. What have you done with it all?""There was half a cake--""Bring it on.""Young Menzies bagged it after the match yesterday. His brother camedown with the Oxford A team, and he had to give him tea in his study.
　　Then there were some biscuits--""What's the matter with biscuits? _They're_ all right. Bring themon. Biscuits forward. Show biscuits.""Menzies took them as well."Dunstable eyed him sorrowfully.
　　"You always were a bit of a maniac," he said, "but I never thought youwere quite such a complete gibberer as to let Menzies get away with allyour grub. Well, the only thing to do is to touch him for tea. He owesus one. Come on."They proceeded down the passage and stopped at the door of study three.
　　"Hullo!" said Menzies, as they entered.
　　"We've come to tea," said Dunstable. "Cut the satisfying sandwich. Let'ssee a little more of that hissing urn of yours, Menzies. Bustle about,and be the dashing host.""I wasn't expecting you.""I can't help your troubles," said Dunstable.
　　"I've not got anything. I was thinking of coming to you, Linton.""Where's that cake?""Finished. My brother simply walked into it.""Greed," said Dunstable unkindly, "seems to be the besetting sin of theMenzies'. Well, what are you going to do about it? I don't wish tothreaten, but I'm a demon when I'm roused. Being done out of my tea issure to rouse me. And owing to unfortunate accident of being stonilybroken, I can't go to the shop. You're responsible for the slump inprovisions, Menzies, and you must see us through this. What are yougoing to do about it?""Do either of you chaps know Sheen at all?""I don't," said Linton. "Not to speak to.""You can't expect us to know all your shady friends," said Dunstable.
　　"Why?""He's got a tea on this evening. If you knew him well enough, you mightborrow something from him. I met Herbert in the dinner-hour carrying inall sorts of things to his study. Still, if you don't know him--""Don't let a trifle of that sort stand in the way," said Dunstable.
　　"Which is his study?""Come on, Linton," said Dunstable. "Be a man, and lead the way. Go inas if he'd invited us. Ten to one he'll think he did, if you don'tspoil the thing by laughing.""What, invite ourselves to tea?" asked Linton, beginning to grasp theidea.
　　"That's it. Sheen's the sort of ass who won't do a thing. Anyhow, itsworth trying. Smith in our house got a tea out of him that way lastterm. Coming, Menzies?""Not much. I hope he kicks you out.""Come on, then, Linton. If Menzies cares to chuck away a square meal,let him."Thus, no sooner had the door of Sheen's study closed upon Stanning thanit was opened again to admit Linton and Dunstable.
　　"Well," said Linton, affably, "here we are.""Hope we're not late," said Dunstable. "You said somewhere about five.
　　It's just struck. Shall we start?"He stooped, and took the kettle from the stove.
　　"Don't you bother," he said to Sheen, who had watched this manoeuvrewith an air of amazement, "I'll do all the dirty work.""But--" began Sheen.
　　"That's all right," said Dunstable soothingly. "I like it."The intellectual pressure of the affair was too much for Sheen. Hecould not recollect having invited Linton, with whom he had exchangedonly about a dozen words that term, much less Dunstable, whom he merelyknew by sight. Yet here they were, behaving like honoured guests. Itwas plain that there was a misunderstanding somewhere, but he shrankfrom grappling with it. He did not want to hurt their feelings. Itwould be awkward enough if they discovered their mistake forthemselves.
　　So he exerted himself nervously to play the host, and the first twingeof remorse which Linton felt came when Sheen pressed upon him a bag ofbiscuits which, he knew, could not have cost less than one and sixpencea pound. His heart warmed to one who could do the thing in such style.
　　Dunstable, apparently, was worried by no scruples. He leaned backeasily in his chair, and kept up a bright flow of conversation.
　　"You're not looking well, Sheen," he said. "You ought to take moreexercise. Why don't you come down town with us one of these days and doa bit of canvassing? It's a rag. Linton lost a tooth at it the otherday. We're going down on Saturday to do a bit more.""Oh!" said Sheen, politely.
　　"We shall get one or two more chaps to help next time. It isn't goodenough, only us two. We had four great beefy hooligans on to us whenLinton got his tooth knocked out. We had to run. There's a regular gangof them going about the town, now that the election's on. A red-headedfellow, who looks like a butcher, seems to boss the show. They call himAlbert. He'll have to be slain one of these days, for the credit of theschool. I should like to get Drummond on to him.""I was expecting Drummond to tea," said Sheen.
　　"He's running and passing with the fifteen," said Linton. "He ought tobe in soon. Why, here he is. Hullo, Drummond!""Hullo!" said the newcomer, looking at his two fellow-visitors as if hewere surprised to see them there.
　　"How were the First?" asked Dunstable.
　　"Oh, rotten. Any tea left?"Conversation flagged from this point, and shortly afterwards Dunstableand Linton went.
　　"Come and tea with me some time," said Linton.
　　"Oh, thanks," said Sheen. "Thanks awfully.""It was rather a shame," said Linton to Dunstable, as they went back totheir study, "rushing him like that. I shouldn't wonder if he's quite agood sort, when one gets to know him.""He must be a rotter to let himself be rushed. By Jove, I should liketo see someone try that game on with me."In the study they had left, Drummond was engaged in pointing this outto Sheen.
　　"The First are rank bad," he said. "The outsides were passing rottenlytoday. We shall have another forty points taken off us when we playRipton. By the way, I didn't know you were a pal of Linton's.""I'm not," said Sheen.
　　"Well, he seemed pretty much at home just now.""I can't understand it. I'm certain I never asked him to tea. OrDunstable either. Yet they came in as if I had. I didn't like to hurttheir feelings by telling them."Drummond stared.
　　"What, they came without being asked! Heavens! man, you must buck up abit and keep awake, or you'll have an awful time. Of course those twochaps were simply trying it on. I had an idea it might be that when Icame in. Why did you let them? Why didn't you scrag them?""Oh, I don't know," said Sheen uncomfortably.
　　"But, look here, it's rot. You _must_ keep your end up in a placelike this, or everybody in the house'll be ragging you. Chaps will,naturally, play the goat if you let them. Has this ever happenedbefore?"Sheen admitted reluctantly that it had. He was beginning to see things.
　　It is never pleasant to feel one has been bluffed.
　　"Once last term," he said, "Smith, a chap in Day's, came to tea likethat. I couldn't very well do anything.""And Dunstable is in Day's. They compared notes. I wonder you haven'thad the whole school dropping in on you, lining up in long queues downthe passage. Look here, Sheen, you really must pull yourself together.
　　I'm not ragging. You'll have a beastly time if you're so feeble. I hopeyou won't be sick with me for saying it, but I can't help that. It'sall for your own good. And it's really pure slackness that's the causeof it all.""I hate hurting people's feelings," said Sheen.
　　"Oh, rot. As if anybody here had any feelings. Besides, it doesn't hurta chap's feelings being told to get out, when he knows he's no businessin a place.""Oh, all right," said Sheen shortly.
　　"Glad you see it," said Drummond. "Well, I'm off. Wonder if there'sanybody in that bath."He reappeared a few moments later. During his absence Sheen overheardcertain shrill protestations which were apparently being uttered in theneighbourhood of the bathroom door.
　　"There was," he said, putting his head into the study and grinningcheerfully at Sheen. "There was young Renford, who had no earthlybusiness to be there. I've just looked in to point the moral. Supposeyou'd have let him bag all the hot water, which ought to have come tohis elders and betters, for fear of hurting his feelings; and gonewithout your bath. I went on my theory that nobody at Wrykyn, least ofall a fag, has any feelings. I turfed him out without a touch ofremorse. You get much the best results my way. So long."And the head disappeared; and shortly afterwards there came from acrossthe passage muffled but cheerful sounds of splashing.
Chapter 4 The Better Part Of Valour
The borough of Wrykyn had been a little unfortunate--or fortunate,according to the point of view--in the matter of elections. The latterpoint of view was that of the younger and more irresponsible section ofthe community, which liked elections because they were exciting. Theformer was that of the tradespeople, who disliked them because they gottheir windows broken.
　　Wrykyn had passed through an election and its attendant festivities inthe previous year, when Sir Eustace Briggs, the mayor of the town, hadbeen returned by a comfortable majority. Since then ill-health hadcaused that gentleman to resign his seat, and the place was once morein a state of unrest. This time the school was deeply interested in thematter. The previous election had not stirred them. They did not carewhether Sir Eustace Briggs defeated Mr Saul Pedder, or whether Mr SaulPedder wiped the political floor with Sir Eustace Briggs. Mr Pedder wasan energetic Radical; but owing to the fact that Wrykyn had alwaysreturned a Conservative member, and did not see its way to a change asyet, his energy had done him very little good. The school had looked onhim as a sportsman, and read his speeches in the local paper withamusement; but they were not interested. Now, however, things werechanged. The Conservative candidate, Sir William Bruce, was one ofthemselves--an Old Wrykinian, a governor of the school, a man whoalways watched school-matches, and the donor of the Bruce Challenge Cupfor the school mile. In fine, one of the best. He was also the fatherof Jack Bruce, a day-boy on the engineering side. The school would haveliked to have made a popular hero of Jack Bruce. If he had liked, hecould have gone about with quite a suite of retainers. But he was aquiet, self-sufficing youth, and was rarely to be seen in public. Theengineering side of a public school has workshops and other weirdnesseswhich keep it occupied after the ordinary school hours. It wasgenerally understood that Bruce was a good sort of chap if you knewhim, but you had got to know him first; brilliant at his work, anddevoted to it; a useful slow bowler; known to be able to drive andrepair the family motor-car; one who seldom spoke unless spoken to, butwho, when he did speak, generally had something sensible to say. Beyondthat, report said little.
　　As he refused to allow the school to work off its enthusiasm on him,they were obliged to work it off elsewhere. Hence the disturbanceswhich had become frequent between school and town. The inflammatoryspeeches of Mr Saul Pedder had caused a swashbuckling spirit to spreadamong the rowdy element of the town. Gangs of youths, to adopt thepolice-court term, had developed a habit of parading the streetsarm-in-arm, shouting "Good old Pedder!" When these met some person orpersons who did not consider Mr Pedder good and old, there wasgenerally what the local police-force described as a "frakkus".
　　It was in one of these frakkuses that Linton had lost a valuable tooth.
　　Two days had elapsed since Dunstable and Linton had looked in on Sheenfor tea. It was a Saturday afternoon, and roll-call was just over.
　　There was no first fifteen match, only a rather uninterestinghouse-match, Templar's _versus_ Donaldson's, and existence in theschool grounds showed signs of becoming tame.
　　"What a beastly term the Easter term is," said Linton, yawning. "Therewon't be a thing to do till the house-matches begin properly."Seymour's had won their first match, as had Day's. They would not becalled upon to perform for another week or more.
　　"Let's get a boat out," suggested Dunstable.
　　"Such a beastly day.""Let's have tea at the shop.""Rather slow. How about going to Cook's?""All right. Toss you who pays."Cook's was a shop in the town to which the school most resorted when inneed of refreshment.
　　"Wonder if we shall meet Albert."Linton licked the place where his tooth should have been, and said hehoped so.
　　Sergeant Cook, the six-foot proprietor of the shop, was examining abroken window when they arrived, and muttering to himself.
　　"Hullo!" said Dunstable, "what's this? New idea for ventilation? Golly,massa, who frew dat brick?""Done it at ar-parse six last night, he did," said Sergeant Cook, "thered-'eaded young scallywag. Ketch 'im--I'll give 'im--""Sounds like dear old Albert," said Linton. "Who did it, sergeant?""Red-headed young mongrel. 'Good old Pedder,' he says. 'I'll give youPedder,' I says. Then bang it comes right on top of the muffins, andwhen I doubled out after 'im 'e'd gone."Mrs Cook appeared and corroborated witness's evidence. Dunstableordered tea.
　　"We may meet him on our way home," said Linton. "If we do, I'll givehim something from you with your love. I owe him a lot for myself."Mrs Cook clicked her tongue compassionately at the sight of the obviousvoid in the speaker's mouth.
　　"You'll 'ave to 'ave a forlse one, Mr Linton," said Sergeant Cook withgloomy relish.
　　The back shop was empty. Dunstable and Linton sat down and began tea.
　　Sergeant Cook came to the door from time to time and dilated further onhis grievances.
　　"Gentlemen from the school they come in 'ere and says ain't it all ajoke and exciting and what not. But I says to them, you 'aven't got tolive in it, I says. That's what it is. You 'aven't got to live in it, Isays. Glad when it's all over, that's what I'll be.""'Nother jug of hot water, please," said Linton.
　　The Sergeant shouted the order over his shoulder, as if he wereaddressing a half-company on parade, and returned to his woes.
　　"You 'aven't got to live in it, I says. That's what it is. It's thiseverlasting worry and flurry day in and day out, and not knowing what'sgoing to 'appen next, and one man coming in and saying 'Vote forBruce', and another 'Vote for Pedder', and another saying how it's thepoor man's loaf he's fighting for--if he'd only _buy_ a loaf,now--'ullo, 'ullo, wot's this?"There was a "confused noise without", as Shakespeare would put it, andinto the shop came clattering Barry and McTodd, of Seymour's, closelyfollowed by Stanning and Attell.
　　"This is getting a bit too thick," said Barry, collapsing into a chair.
　　From the outer shop came the voice of Sergeant Cook.
　　"Let me jest come to you, you red-'eaded--"Roars of derision from the road.
　　"That's Albert," said Linton, jumping up.
　　"Yes, I heard them call him that," said Barry. "McTodd and I werecoming down here to tea, when they started going for us, so we nippedin here, hoping to find reinforcements.""We were just behind you," said Stanning. "I got one of them a beauty.
　　He went down like a shot.""Albert?" inquired Linton.
　　"No. A little chap.""Let's go out, and smash them up," suggested Linton excitedly.
　　Dunstable treated the situation more coolly.
　　"Wait a bit," he said. "No hurry. Let's finish tea at any rate. You'dbetter eat as much as you can now Linton. You may have no teeth left todo it with afterwards," he added cheerfully.
　　"Let's chuck things at them," said McTodd.
　　"Don't be an ass," said Barry. "What on earth's the good of that?""Well, it would be something," said McTodd vaguely.
　　"Hit 'em with a muffin," suggested Stanning. "Dash, I barked myknuckles on that man. But I bet he felt it.""Look here, I'm going out," said Linton. "Come on, Dunstable."Dunstable continued his meal without hurry.
　　"What's the excitement?" he said. "There's plenty of time. Dear oldAlbert's not the sort of chap to go away when he's got us corneredhere. The first principle of warfare is to get a good feed before youstart.""And anyhow," said Barry, "I came here for tea, and I'm going to haveit."Sergeant Cook was recalled from the door, and received the orders.
　　"They've just gone round the corner," he said, "and that red-'eaded one'e says he's goin' to wait if he 'as to wait all night.""Quite right," said Dunstable, approvingly. "Sensible chap, Albert. Ifyou see him, you might tell him we shan't be long, will you?"A quarter of an hour passed.
　　"Kerm out," shouted a voice from the street.
　　Dunstable looked at the others.
　　"Perhaps we might be moving now," he said, getting up "Ready?""We must keep together," said Barry.
　　"You goin' out, Mr Dunstable?" inquired Sergeant Cook.
　　"Yes. Good bye. You'll see that we're decently buried won't you?"The garrison made its sortie.
　　* * * * *It happened that Drummond and Sheen were also among those whom it hadstruck that afternoon that tea at Cook's would be pleasant; and theycame upon the combatants some five minutes after battle had beenjoined. The town contingent were filling the air with strange cries,Albert's voice being easily heard above the din, while the Wrykinians,as public-school men should, were fighting quietly and without unseemlytumult.
　　"By Jove," said Drummond, "here's a row on."Sheen stopped dead, with a queer, sinking feeling within him. Hegulped. Drummond did not notice these portents. He was observing thebattle.
　　Suddenly he uttered an exclamation.
　　"Why, it's some of our chaps! There's a Seymour's cap. Isn't thatMcTodd? And, great Scott! there's Barry. Come on, man!"Sheen did not move.
　　"Ought we...to get...mixed up...?" he began.
　　Drummond looked at him with open eyes. Sheen babbled on.
　　"The old man might not like--sixth form, you see--oughtn't we to--?"There was a yell of triumph from the town army as the red-hairedAlbert, plunging through the fray, sent Barry staggering against thewall. Sheen caught a glimpse of Albert's grinning face as he turned. Hehad a cut over one eye. It bled.
　　"Come on," said Drummond, beginning to run to the scene of action.
　　Sheen paused for a moment irresolutely. Then he walked rapidly in theopposite direction.
Chapter 5 The White Feather
It was not until he had reached his study that Sheen thoroughlyrealised what he had done. All the way home he had been defendinghimself eloquently against an imaginary accuser; and he had built up avery sound, thoughtful, and logical series of arguments to show that hewas not only not to blame for what he had done, but had acted in highlystatesmanlike and praiseworthy manner. After all, he was in the sixth.
　　Not a prefect, it was true, but, still, practically a prefect. Theheadmaster disliked unpleasantness between school and town, much moreso between the sixth form of the school and the town. Therefore, he haddone his duty in refusing to be drawn into a fight with Albert andfriends. Besides, why should he be expected to join in whenever he sawa couple of fellows fighting? It wasn't reasonable. It was no businessof his. Why, it was absurd. He had no quarrel with those fellows. Itwasn't cowardice. It was simply that he had kept his head better thanDrummond, and seen further into the matter. Besides....
　　But when he sat down in his chair, this mood changed. There is a vastdifference between the view one takes of things when one is walkingbriskly, and that which comes when one thinks the thing over coldly. Ashe sat there, the wall of defence which he had built up slipped awaybrick by brick, and there was the fact staring at him, without coveringor disguise.
　　It was no good arguing against himself. No amount of argument couldwipe away the truth. He had been afraid, and had shown it. And he hadshown it when, in a sense, he was representing the school, when Wrykynlooked to him to help it keep its end up against the town.
　　The more he reflected, the more he saw how far-reaching were theconsequences of that failure in the hour of need. He had disgracedhimself. He had disgraced Seymour's. He had disgraced the school. Hewas an outcast.
　　This mood, the natural reaction from his first glow of almost jauntyself-righteousness, lasted till the lock-up bell rang, when it wassucceeded by another. This time he took a more reasonable view of theaffair. It occurred to him that there was a chance that his defectionhad passed unnoticed. Nothing could make his case seem better in hisown eyes, but it might be that the thing would end there. The housemight not have lost credit.
　　An overwhelming curiosity seized him to find out how it had all ended.
　　The ten minutes of grace which followed the ringing of the lock-up bellhad passed. Drummond and the rest must be back by now.
　　He went down the passage to Drummond's study. Somebody was inside. Hecould hear him.
　　He knocked at the door.
　　Drummond was sitting at the table reading. He looked up, and there wasa silence. Sheen's mouth felt dry. He could not think how to begin. Henoticed that Drummond's face was unmarked. Looking down, he saw thatone of the knuckles of the hand that held the book was swollen and cut.
　　"Drummond, I--"Drummond lowered the book.
　　"Get out," he said. He spoke without heat, calmly, as if he were makingsome conventional remark by way of starting a conversation.
　　"I only came to ask--""Get out," said Drummond again.
　　There was another pause. Drummond raised his book and went on reading.
　　Sheen left the room.
　　Outside he ran into Linton. Unlike Drummond, Linton bore marks of theencounter. As in the case of the hero of Calverley's poem, one of hisspeaking eyes was sable. The swelling of his lip was increased. Therewas a deep red bruise on his forehead. In spite of these injuries,however, he was cheerful. He was whistling when Sheen collided withhim.
　　"Sorry," said Linton, and went on into the study.
　　"Well," he said, "how are you feeling, Drummond? Lucky beggar, youhaven't got a mark. I wish I could duck like you. Well, we have foughtthe good fight. Exit Albert--sweep him up. You gave him enough to lasthim for the rest of the term. I couldn't tackle the brute. He's asstrong as a horse. My word, it was lucky you happened to come up.
　　Albert was making hay of us. Still, all's well that ends well. We havesmitten the Philistines this day. By the way--""What's up now?""Who was that chap with you when you came up?""Which chap?""I thought I saw some one.""You shouldn't eat so much tea. You saw double.""There wasn't anybody?""No," said Drummond.
　　"Not Sheen?""No," said Drummond, irritably. "How many more times do you want me tosay it?""All right," said Linton, "I only asked. I met him outside.""Who?""Sheen.""Oh!""You might be sociable.""I know I might. But I want to read.""Lucky man. Wish I could. I can hardly see. Well, good bye, then. I'moff.""Good," grunted Drummond. "You know your way out, don't you?"Linton went back to his own study.
　　"It's all very well," he said to himself, "for Drummond to deny it, butI'll swear I saw Sheen with him. So did Dunstable. I'll cut out and askhim about it after prep. If he really was there, and cut off, somethingought to be done about it. The chap ought to be kicked. He's a disgraceto the house."Dunstable, questioned after preparation, refused to commit himself.
　　"I thought I saw somebody with Drummond," he said, "and I had a sort ofidea it was Sheen. Still, I was pretty busy at the time, and wasn'tpaying much attention to anything, except that long, thin bargee withthe bowler. I wish those men would hit straight. It's beastly difficultto guard a round-arm swing. My right ear feels like a cauliflower. Doesit look rum?""Beastly. But what about this? You can't swear to Sheen then?""No. Better give him the benefit of the doubt. What does Drummond say?
　　You ought to ask him.""I have. He says he was alone.""Well, that settles it. What an ass you are. If Drummond doesn't know,who does?""I believe he's simply hushing it up.""Well, let us hush it up, too. It's no good bothering about it. Welicked them all right.""But it's such a beastly thing for the house.""Then why the dickens do you want it to get about? Surely the bestthing you can do is to dry up and say nothing about it.""But something ought to be done.""What's the good of troubling about a man like Sheen? He never was anygood, and this doesn't make him very much worse. Besides, he'llprobably be sick enough on his own account. I know I should, if I'ddone it. And, anyway, we don't know that he did do it.""I'm certain he did. I could swear it was him.""Anyhow, for goodness' sake let the thing drop.""All right. But I shall cut him.""Well, that would be punishment enough for anybody, whatever he'd done.
　　Fancy existence without your bright conversation. It doesn't bearthinking of. You do look a freak with that eye and that lump on yourforehead. You ought to wear a mask.""That ear of yours," said Linton with satisfaction, "will be aboutthree times its ordinary size tomorrow. And it always was too large.
　　Good night."On his way back to Seymour's Mason of Appleby's, who was standing athis house gate imbibing fresh air, preparatory to going to bed,accosted him.
　　"I say, Linton," he said, "--hullo, you look a wreck, don't you!--Isay, what's all this about your house?""What about my house?""Funking, and all that. Sheen, you know. Stanning has just been tellingme.""Then he saw him, too!" exclaimed Linton, involuntarily.
　　"Oh, it's true, then? Did he really cut off like that? Stanning said hedid, but I wouldn't believe him at first. You aren't going? Goodnight."So the thing was out. Linton had not counted on Stanning having seenwhat he and Dunstable had seen. It was impossible to hush it up now.
　　The scutcheon of Seymour's was definitely blotted. The name of thehouse was being held up to scorn in Appleby's probably everywhere elseas well. It was a nuisance, thought Linton, but it could not be helped.
　　After all, it was a judgment on the house for harbouring such aspecimen as Sheen.
　　In Seymour's there was tumult and an impromptu indignation meeting.
　　Stanning had gone to work scientifically. From the moment that, duckingunder the guard of a sturdy town youth, he had caught sight of Sheenretreating from the fray, he had grasped the fact that here,ready-made, was his chance of working off his grudge against him. Allhe had to do was to spread the news abroad, and the school would do therest. On his return from the town he had mentioned the facts of thecase to one or two of the more garrulous members of his house, and theyhad passed it on to everybody they met during the interval in themiddle of preparation. By the end of preparation half the school knewwhat had happened.
　　Seymour's was furious. The senior day-room to a man condemned Sheen.
　　The junior day-room was crimson in the face and incoherent. Thedemeanour of a junior in moments of excitement generally lacks thatrepose which marks the philosopher.
　　"He ought to be kicked," shrilled Renford.
　　"We shall get rotted by those kids in Dexter's," moaned Harvey.
　　"Disgracing the house!" thundered Watson.
　　"Let's go and chuck things at his door," suggested Renford.
　　A move was made to the passage in which Sheen's study was situated,and, with divers groans and howls, the junior day-room hove footballboots and cricket stumps at the door.
　　The success of the meeting, however, was entirely neutralised by thefact that in the same passage stood the study of Rigby, the head of thehouse. Also Rigby was trying at the moment to turn into idiomatic Greekverse the words: "The Days of Peace and Slumberous calm have fled", andthis corroboration of the statement annoyed him to the extent ofcausing him to dash out and sow lines among the revellers like somemonarch scattering largesse. The junior day-room retired to its lair toinveigh against the brutal ways of those in authority, and beginworking off the commission it had received.
　　The howls in the passage were the first official intimation Sheen hadreceived that his shortcomings were public property. The word "Funk!"shouted through his keyhole, had not unnaturally given him an inklingas to the state of affairs.
　　So Drummond had given him away, he thought. Probably he had told Lintonthe whole story the moment after he, Sheen, had met the latter at thedoor of the study. And perhaps he was now telling it to the rest of thehouse. Of all the mixed sensations from which he suffered as he went tohis dormitory that night, one of resentment against Drummond was thekeenest.
　　Sheen was in the fourth dormitory, where the majority of the day-roomslept. He was in the position of a sort of extra house prefect, as faras the dormitory was concerned. It was a large dormitory, and MrSeymour had fancied that it might, perhaps, be something of a handfulfor a single prefect. As a matter of fact, however, Drummond, who wasin charge, had shown early in the term that he was more than capable ofmanaging the place single handed. He was popular and determined. Thedormitory was orderly, partly because it liked him, principally becauseit had to be.
　　He had an opportunity of exhibiting his powers of control that night.
　　When Sheen came in, the room was full. Drummond was in bed, reading hisnovel. The other ornaments of the dormitory were in various stages ofundress.
　　As Sheen appeared, a sudden hissing broke out from the farther cornerof the room. Sheen flushed, and walked to his bed. The hissingincreased in volume and richness.
　　"Shut up that noise," said Drummond, without looking up from his book.
　　The hissing diminished. Only two or three of the more reckless kept itup.
　　Drummond looked across the room at them.
　　"Stop that noise, and get into bed," he said quietly.
　　The hissing ceased. He went on with his book again.
　　Silence reigned in dormitory four.
Chapter 6 Albert Redivivus
By murdering in cold blood a large and respected family, and afterwardsdepositing their bodies in a reservoir, one may gain, we are told, muchunpopularity in the neighbourhood of one's crime; while robbing achurch will get one cordially disliked especially by the vicar. But, tobe really an outcast, to feel that one has no friend in the world, onemust break an important public-school commandment.
　　Sheen had always been something of a hermit. In his most sociablemoments he had never had more than one or two friends; but he had neverbefore known what it meant to be completely isolated. It was likeliving in a world of ghosts, or, rather, like being a ghost in a livingworld. That disagreeable experience of being looked through, as if onewere invisible, comes to the average person, it may be half a dozentimes in his life. Sheen had to put up with it a hundred times a day.
　　People who were talking to one another stopped when he appeared andwaited until he had passed on before beginning again. Altogether, hewas made to feel that he had done for himself, that, as far as the lifeof the school was concerned, he did not exist.
　　There had been some talk, particularly in the senior day-room, of moreactive measures. It was thought that nothing less than a court-martialcould meet the case. But the house prefects had been against it. Sheenwas in the sixth, and, however monstrous and unspeakable might havebeen his acts, it would hardly do to treat him as if he were a junior.
　　And the scheme had been definitely discouraged by Drummond, who hadstated, without wrapping the gist of his remarks in elusive phrases,that in the event of a court-martial being held he would interview thepresident of the same and knock his head off. So Seymour's had fallenback on the punishment which from their earliest beginnings the publicschools have meted out to their criminals. They had cut Sheen dead.
　　In a way Sheen benefited from this excommunication. Now that he couldnot even play fives, for want of an opponent, there was nothing leftfor him to do but work. Fortunately, he had an object. The Gotfordwould be coming on in a few weeks, and the more work he could do forit, the better. Though Stanning was the only one of his rivals whom hefeared, and though _he_ was known to be taking very little troubleover the matter, it was best to run as few risks as possible. Stanningwas one of those people who produce great results in their work withoutseeming to do anything for them.
　　So Sheen shut himself up in his study and ground grimly away at hisbooks, and for exercise went for cross-country walks. It was amonotonous kind of existence. For the space of a week the onlyWrykinian who spoke a single word to him was Bruce, the son of theConservative candidate for Wrykyn: and Bruce's conversation had beenlimited to two remarks. He had said, "You might play that again, willyou?" and, later, "Thanks". He had come into the music-room while Sheenwas practising one afternoon, and had sat down, without speaking, on achair by the door. When Sheen had played for the second time the piecewhich had won his approval, Bruce thanked him and left the room. As thesolitary break in the monotony of the week, Sheen remembered theincident rather vividly.
　　Since the great rout of Albert and his minions outside Cook's, things,as far as the seniors were concerned, had been quiet between school andtown. Linton and Dunstable had gone to and from Cook's two days insuccession without let or hindrance. It was generally believed that,owing to the unerring way in which he had put his head in front ofDrummond's left on that memorable occasion, the scarlet-haired one wasat present dry-docked for repairs. The story in the school--it hadgrown with the days--was that Drummond had laid the enemy out on thepavement with a sickening crash, and that he had still been there at,so to speak, the close of play. As a matter of fact, Albert was inexcellent shape, and only an unfortunate previous engagement preventedhim from ranging the streets near Cook's as before. Sir William Brucewas addressing a meeting in another part of the town, and Albertthought it his duty to be on hand to boo.
　　In the junior portion of the school the feud with the town was brisk.
　　Mention has been made of a certain St Jude's, between which seat oflearning and the fags of Dexter's and the School House there was aspirited vendetta.
　　Jackson, of Dexter's was one of the pillars of the movement. Jacksonwasa calm-brow'd lad,Yet mad, at moments, as a hatter,and he derived a great deal of pleasure from warring against St Jude's.
　　It helped him to enjoy his meals. He slept the better for it. After alittle turn up with a Judy he was fuller of that spirit of manlyfortitude and forbearance so necessary to those whom Fate broughtfrequently into contact with Mr Dexter. The Judies wore mortar-boards,and it was an enjoyable pastime sending these spinning into spaceduring one of the usual _rencontres_ in the High Street. From thefact that he and his friends were invariably outnumbered, there was asporting element in these affairs, though occasionally this inferiorityof numbers was the cause of his executing a scientific retreat with theenemy harassing his men up to the very edge of the town. This hadhappened on the last occasion. There had been casualties. No fewer thansix house-caps had fallen into the enemy's hands, and he himself hadbeen tripped up and rolled in a puddle.
　　He burned to avenge this disaster.
　　"Corning down to Cook's?" he said to his ally, Painter. It was just aweek since the Sheen episode.
　　"All right," said Painter.
　　"Suppose we go by the High Street," suggested Jackson, casually.
　　"Then we'd better get a few more chaps," said Painter.
　　A few more chaps were collected, and the party, numbering eight, setoff for the town. There were present such stalwarts as Borwick andCrowle, both of Dexter's, and Tomlin, of the School House, a useful manto have by you in an emergency. It was Tomlin who, on one occasion,attacked by two terrific champions of St Jude's in a narrow passage,had vanquished them both, and sent their mortar-boards miles into theempyrean, so that they were never the same mortar-boards again, butwore ever after a bruised and draggled look.
　　The expedition passed down the High Street without adventure, until, bycommon consent, it stopped at the lofty wall which bounded theplayground of St Jude's.
　　From the other side of the wall came sounds of revelry, shrillsquealings and shoutings. The Judies were disporting themselves at oneof their weird games. It was known that they played touch-last, andScandal said that another of their favourite recreations was marbles.
　　The juniors at Wrykyn believed that it was to hide these excesses fromthe gaze of the public that the playground wall had been made so high.
　　Eye-witnesses, who had peeped through the door in the said wall,reported that what the Judies seemed to do mostly was to chase oneanother about the playground, shrieking at the top of their voices.
　　But, they added, this was probably a mere ruse to divert suspicion.
　　They had almost certainly got the marbles in their pockets all thetime.
　　The expedition stopped, and looked itself in the face.
　　"How about buzzing something at them?" said Jackson earnestly.
　　"You can get oranges over the road," said Tomlin in his helpful way.
　　Jackson vanished into the shop indicated, and reappeared a few momentslater with a brown paper bag.
　　"It seems a beastly waste," suggested the economical Painter.
　　"That's all right," said Jackson, "they're all bad. The man thought Iwas rotting him when I asked if he'd got any bad oranges, but I gotthem at last. Give us a leg up, some one."Willing hands urged him to the top of the wall. He drew out a greenorange, and threw it.
　　There was a sudden silence on the other side of the wall. Then a howlof wrath went up to the heavens. Jackson rapidly emptied his bag.
　　"Got him!" he exclaimed, as the last orange sped on its way. "Look out,they're coming!"The expedition had begun to move off with quiet dignity, when from thedoorway in the wall there poured forth a stream of mortar-boardedwarriors, shrieking defiance. The expedition advanced to meet them.
　　As usual, the Judies had the advantage in numbers, and, filled to thebrim with righteous indignation, they were proceeding to make thingsuncommonly warm for the invaders--Painter had lost his cap, and Tomlinthree waistcoat buttons--when the eye of Jackson, roving up and downthe street, was caught by a Seymour's cap. He was about to shout forassistance when he perceived that the newcomer was Sheen, andrefrained. It was no use, he felt, asking Sheen for help.
　　But just as Sheen arrived and the ranks of the expedition werebeginning to give way before the strenuous onslaught of the Judies, thelatter, almost with one accord, turned and bolted into their playgroundagain. Looking round, Tomlin, that first of generals, saw the reason,and uttered a warning.
　　A mutual foe had appeared. From a passage on the left of the road therehad debouched on to the field of action Albert himself and two of hisband.
　　The expedition flew without false shame. It is to be doubted whetherone of Albert's calibre would have troubled to attack such small game,but it was the firm opinion of the Wrykyn fags and the Judies that heand his men were to be avoided.
　　The newcomers did not pursue them. They contented themselves withshouting at them. One of the band threw a stone.
　　Then they caught sight of Sheen.
　　Albert said, "Oo er!" and advanced at the double. His companionsfollowed him.
　　Sheen watched them come, and backed against the wall. His heart wasthumping furiously. He was in for it now, he felt. He had come down tothe town with this very situation in his mind. A wild idea of doingsomething to restore his self-respect and his credit in the eyes of thehouse had driven him to the High Street. But now that the crisis hadactually arrived, he would have given much to have been in his studyagain.
　　Albert was quite close now. Sheen could see the marks which hadresulted from his interview with Drummond. With all his force Sheen hitout, and experienced a curious thrill as his fist went home. It was apoor blow from a scientific point of view, but Sheen's fives had givenhim muscle, and it checked Albert. That youth, however, recoveredrapidly, and the next few moments passed in a whirl for Sheen. Hereceived a stinging blow on his left ear, and another which deprivedhim of his whole stock of breath, and then he was on the ground,conscious only of a wish to stay there for ever.
Chapter 7 Mr Joe Bevan
Almost involuntarily he staggered up to receive another blow which senthim down again.
　　"That'll do," said a voice.
　　Sheen got up, panting. Between him and his assailant stood a short,sturdy man in a tweed suit. He was waving Albert back, and Albertappeared to be dissatisfied. He was arguing hotly with the newcomer.
　　"Now, you go away," said that worthy, mildly, "just you go away."Albert gave it as his opinion that the speaker would do well not tocome interfering in what didn't concern him. What he wanted, assertedAlbert, was a thick ear.
　　"Coming pushing yourself in," added Albert querulously.
　　"You go away," repeated the stranger. "You go away. I don't want tohave trouble with you."Albert's reply was to hit out with his left hand in the direction ofthe speaker's face. The stranger, without fuss, touched the back ofAlbert's wrist gently with the palm of his right hand, and Albert,turning round in a circle, ended the manoeuvre with his back towardshis opponent. He faced round again irresolutely. The thing hadsurprised him.
　　"You go away," said the other, as if he were making the observation forthe first time.
　　"It's Joe Bevan," said one of Albert's friends, excitedly.
　　Albert's jaw fell. His freckled face paled.
　　"You go away," repeated the man in the tweed suit, whose conversationseemed inclined to run in a groove.
　　This time Albert took the advice. His friends had already taken it.
　　"Thanks," said Sheen.
　　"Beware," said Mr Bevan oracularly, "of entrance to a quarrel; but,being in, bear't that th' opposed may beware of thee. Always counterback when you guard. When a man shows you his right like that, alwayspush out your hand straight. The straight left rules the boxing world.
　　Feeling better, sir?""Yes, thanks.""He got that right in just on the spot. I was watching. When you see aman coming to hit you with his right like that, don't you draw back.
　　Get on top of him. He can't hit you then."That feeling of utter collapse, which is the immediate result of a blowin the parts about the waistcoat, was beginning to pass away, and Sheennow felt capable of taking an interest in sublunary matters once more.
　　His ear smarted horribly, and when he put up a hand and felt it thepain was so great that he could barely refrain from uttering a cry.
　　But, however physically battered he might be, he was feeling happierand more satisfied with himself than he had felt for years. He had beenbeaten, but he had fought his best, and not given in. Some portion ofhis self-respect came back to him as he reviewed the late encounter.
　　Mr Bevan regarded him approvingly.
　　"He was too heavy for you," he said. "He's a good twelve stone, I makeit. I should put you at ten stone--say ten stone three. Call it ninestone twelve in condition. But you've got pluck, sir."Sheen opened his eyes at this surprising statement.
　　"Some I've met would have laid down after getting that first hit, butyou got up again. That's the secret of fighting. Always keep going on.
　　Never give in. You know what Shakespeare says about the one who firstcries, 'Hold, enough!' Do you read Shakespeare, sir?""Yes," said Sheen.
　　"Ah, now _he_ knew his business," said Mr Bevan enthusiastically.
　　"_There_ was ring-craft, as you may say. _He_ wasn't a novice."Sheen agreed that Shakespeare had written some good things in his time.
　　"That's what you want to remember. Always keep going on, as the sayingis. I was fighting Dick Roberts at the National--an American, he was,from San Francisco. He come at me with his right stretched out, and Ithink he's going to hit me with it, when blessed if his left don't comeout instead, and, my Golly! it nearly knocked a passage through me.
　　Just where that fellow hit you, sir, he hit me. It was just at the endof the round, and I went back to my corner. Jim Blake was seconding me.
　　'What's this, Jim?' I says, 'is the man mad, or what?' 'Why,' he says,'he's left-handed, that's what's the matter. Get on top of him.' 'Geton top of him? I says. 'My Golly, I'll get on top of the roof if he'sgoing to hit me another of those.' But I kept on, and got close to him,and he couldn't get in another of them, and he give in after theseventh round.""What competition was that?" asked Sheen.
　　Mr Bevan laughed. "It was a twenty-round contest, sir, for seven-fiftyaside and the Light Weight Championship of the World."Sheen looked at him in astonishment. He had always imaginedprofessional pugilists to be bullet-headed and beetle-browed to a man.
　　He was not prepared for one of Mr Joe Bevan's description. For all themarks of his profession that he bore on his face, in the shape of lumpsand scars, he might have been a curate. His face looked tough, and hiseyes harboured always a curiously alert, questioning expression, as ifhe were perpetually "sizing up" the person he was addressing. Butotherwise he was like other men. He seemed also to have a pretty tastein Literature. This, combined with his strong and capable air,attracted Sheen. Usually he was shy and ill at ease with strangers. JoeBevan he felt he had known all his life.
　　"Do you still fight?" he asked.
　　"No," said Mr Bevan, "I gave it up. A man finds he's getting on, as thesaying is, and it don't do to keep at it too long. I teach and I train,but I don't fight now."A sudden idea flashed across Sheen's mind. He was still glowing withthat pride which those who are accustomed to work with their brainsfeel when they have gone honestly through some labour of the hands. Atthat moment he felt himself capable of fighting the world and beatingit. The small point, that Albert had knocked him out of time in lessthan a minute, did not damp him at all. He had started on the rightroad. He had done something. He had stood up to his man till he couldstand no longer. An unlimited vista of action stretched before him. Hehad tasted the pleasure of the fight, and he wanted more.
　　Why, he thought, should he not avail himself of Joe Bevan's services tohelp him put himself right in the eyes of the house? At the end of theterm, shortly before the Public Schools' Competitions at Aldershot,inter-house boxing cups were competed for at Wrykyn. It would be adramatic act of reparation to the house if he could win theLight-Weight cup for it. His imagination, jumping wide gaps, did notadmit the possibility of his not being good enough to win it. In thescene which he conjured up in his mind he was an easy victor. Afterall, there was the greater part of the term to learn in, and he wouldhave a Champion of the World to teach him.
　　Mr Bevan cut in on his reflections as if he had heard them by someprocess of wireless telegraphy.
　　"Now, look here, sir," he said, "you should let me give you a fewlessons. You're plucky, but you don't know the game as yet. Andboxing's a thing every one ought to know. Supposition is, you'recrossing a field or going down a street with your sweetheart or yourwife--"Sheen was neither engaged nor married, but he let the point pass.
　　--"And up comes one of these hooligans, as they call 'em. What are yougoing to do if he starts his games? Why, nothing, if you can't box. Youmay be plucky, but you can't beat him. And if you beat him, you'll gethalf murdered yourself. What you want to do is to learn to box, andthen what happens? Why, as soon as he sees you shaping, he says tohimself, 'Hullo, this chap knows too much for me. I'm off,' and off heruns. Or supposition is, he comes for you. You don't mind. Not you. Yougive him one punch in the right place, and then you go off to your tea,leaving him lying there. He won't get up.""I'd like to learn," said Sheen. "I should be awfully obliged if you'dteach me. I wonder if you could make me any good by the end of theterm. The House Competitions come off then.""That all depends, sir. It comes easier to some than others. If youknow how to shoot your left out straight, that's as good as six months'
　　teaching. After that it's all ring-craft. The straight left beats theworld.""Where shall I find you?""I'm training a young chap--eight stone seven, and he's got to get downto eight stone four, for a bantam weight match--at an inn up the riverhere. I daresay you know it, sir. Or any one would tell you where itis. The 'Blue Boar,' it's called. You come there any time you like toname, sir, and you'll find me.""I should like to come every day," said Sheen. "Would that be toooften?""Oftener the better, sir. You can't practise too much.""Then I'll start next week. Thanks very much. By the way, I shall haveto go by boat, I suppose. It isn't far, is it? I've not been up theriver for some time, The School generally goes down stream.""It's not what you'd call far," said Bevan. "But it would be easier foryou to come by road.""I haven't a bicycle.""Wouldn't one of your friends lend you one?"Sheen flushed.
　　"No, I'd better come by boat, I think. I'll turn up on Tuesday at aboutfive. Will that suit you?""Yes, sir. That will be a good time. Then I'll say good bye, sir, forthe present."Sheen went back to his house in a different mood from the one in whichhe had left it. He did not care now when the other Seymourites lookedthrough him.
　　In the passage he met Linton, and grinned pleasantly at him.
　　"What the dickens was that man grinning at?" said Linton to himself. "Imust have a smut or something on my face."But a close inspection in the dormitory looking-glass revealed noblemish on his handsome features.
Chapter 8 A Anval Battle And Its Consequences
What a go is life!
　　Let us examine the case of Jackson, of Dexter's. O'Hara, who had leftDexter's at the end of the summer term, had once complained to Clowesof the manner in which his house-master treated him, and Clowes hadremarked in his melancholy way that it was nothing less than a breachof the law that Dexter should persist in leading a fellow a dog's lifewithout a dog licence for him.
　　That was precisely how Jackson felt on the subject.
　　Things became definitely unbearable on the day after Sheen's interviewwith Mr Joe Bevan.
　　'Twas morn--to begin at the beginning--and Jackson sprang from hislittle cot to embark on the labours of the day. Unfortunately, hesprang ten minutes too late, and came down to breakfast about the timeof the second slice of bread and marmalade. Result, a hundred lines.
　　Proceeding to school, he had again fallen foul of his house-master--inwhose form he was--over a matter of unprepared Livy. As a matter offact, Jackson _had_ prepared the Livy. Or, rather, he had notabsolutely _prepared_ it; but he had meant to. But it was MrTemplar's preparation, and Mr Templar was short-sighted. Any one willunderstand, therefore, that it would have been simply chucking away thegifts of Providence if he had not gone on with the novel which he hadbeen reading up till the last moment before prep-time, and had broughtalong with him accidentally, as it were. It was a book called _ASpoiler of Men_, by Richard Marsh, and there was a repulsive crime onnearly every page. It was Hot Stuff. Much better than Livy....
　　Lunch Score--Two hundred lines.
　　During lunch he had the misfortune to upset a glass of water. Pureaccident, of course, but there it was, don't you know, all over thetable.
　　Mr Dexter had called him--(a) clumsy;(b) a pig;and had given him(1) Advice--"You had better be careful, Jackson".
　　(2) A present--"Two hundred lines, Jackson".
　　On the match being resumed at two o'clock, with four hundred lines onthe score-sheet, he had played a fine, free game during afternoonschool, and Mr Dexter, who objected to fine, free games--or, indeed,any games--during school hours, had increased the total to six hundred,when stumps were drawn for the day.
　　So on a bright sunny Saturday afternoon, when he should have been outin the field cheering the house-team on to victory against the SchoolHouse, Jackson sat in the junior day-room at Dexter's copying outportions of Virgil, Aeneid Two.
　　To him, later on in the afternoon, when he had finished half his task,entered Painter, with the news that Dexter's had taken thirty pointsoff the School House just after half-time.
　　"Mopped them up," said the terse and epigrammatic Painter. "Made ringsround them. Haven't you finished yet? Well, chuck it, and come out.""What's on?" asked Jackson.
　　"We're going to have a boat race.""Pile it on.""We are, really. Fact. Some of these School House kids are awfully sickabout the match, and challenged us. That chap Tomlin thinks he can row.
　　"He can't row for nuts," said Jackson. "He doesn't know which end ofthe oar to shove into the water. I've seen cats that could row betterthan Tomlin.""That's what I told him. At least, I said he couldn't row for toffee,so he said all right, I bet I can lick you, and I said I betted hecouldn't, and he said all right, then, let's try, and then the otherchaps wanted to join in, so we made an inter-house thing of it. And Iwant you to come and stroke us."Jackson hesitated. Mr Dexter, setting the lines on Friday, hadcertainly said that they were to be shown up "tomorrow evening." He hadsaid it very loud and clear. Still, in a case like this....After all,by helping to beat the School House on the river he would be givingDexter's a leg-up. And what more could the man want?
　　"Right ho," said Jackson.
　　Down at the School boat-house the enemy were already afloat whenPainter and Jackson arrived.
　　"Buck up," cried the School House crew.
　　Dexter's embarked, five strong. There was room for two on each seat.
　　Jackson shared the post of stroke with Painter. Crowle steered.
　　"Ready?" asked Tomlin from the other boat.
　　"Half a sec.," said Jackson. "What's the course?""Oh, don't you know _that_ yet? Up to the town, round the islandjust below the bridge,--the island with the croquet ground on it,_you_ know--and back again here. Ready?""In a jiffy. Look here, Crowle, remember about steering. You pull theright line if you want to go to the right and the other if you want togo to the left.""All right," said the injured Crowle. "As if I didn't know that.""Thought I'd mention it. It's your fault. Nobody could tell by lookingat you that you knew anything except how to eat. Ready, you chaps?""When I say 'Three,'" said Tomlin.
　　It was a subject of heated discussion between the crews for weeksafterwards whether Dexter's boat did or did not go off at the word"Two." Opinions were divided on the topic. But it was certain thatJackson and his men led from the start. Pulling a good, splashingstroke which had drenched Crowle to the skin in the first thirty yards,Dexter's boat crept slowly ahead. By the time the island was reached,it led by a length. Encouraged by success, the leaders redoubled theiralready energetic efforts. Crowle sat in a shower-bath. He was evenmoved to speech about it.
　　"When you've finished," said Crowle.
　　Jackson, intent upon repartee, caught a crab, and the School House drewlevel again. The two boats passed the island abreast.
　　Just here occurred one of those unfortunate incidents. Both crews hadquickened their stroke until the boats had practically been convertedinto submarines, and the rival coxswains were observing bitterly tospace that this was jolly well the last time they ever let themselvesin for this sort of thing, when round the island there hove in sight aflotilla of boats, directly in the path of the racers.
　　There were three of them, and not even the spray which played over themlike a fountain could prevent Crowle from seeing that they were mannedby Judies. Even on the river these outcasts wore their mortar-boards.
　　"Look out!" shrieked Crowle, pulling hard on his right line. "Stoprowing, you chaps. We shall be into them."At the same moment the School House oarsmen ceased pulling. The twoboats came to a halt a few yards from the enemy.
　　"What's up?" panted Jackson, crimson from his exertions. "Hullo, it'sthe Judies!"Tomlin was parleying with the foe.
　　"Why the dickens can't you keep out of the way? Spoiling our race. Waittill we get ashore."But the Judies, it seemed, were not prepared to wait even for thatshort space of time. A miscreant, larger than the common run of Judy,made a brief, but popular, address to his men.
　　"Splash them!" he said.
　　Instantly, amid shrieks of approval, oars began to strike the water,and the water began to fly over the Wrykyn boats, which were nowsurrounded. The latter were not slow to join battle with the sameweapons. Homeric laughter came from the bridge above. The town bridgewas a sort of loafers' club, to which the entrance fee was a screw oftobacco, and the subscription an occasional remark upon the weather.
　　Here gathered together day by day that section of the populace whichresented it when they "asked for employment, and only got workinstead". From morn till eve they lounged against the balustrades,surveying nature, and hoping it would be kind enough to give them someexcitement that day. An occasional dog-fight found in them an eageraudience. No runaway horse ever bored them. A broken-down motor-car wasmeat and drink to them. They had an appetite for every spectacle.
　　When, therefore, the water began to fly from boat to boat, kind-heartedmen fetched their friends from neighbouring public houses and cranedwith them over the parapet, observing the sport and commenting thereon.
　　It was these comments that attracted Mr Dexter's attention. When,cycling across the bridge, he found the south side of it entirelycongested, and heard raucous voices urging certain unseen "little 'uns"now to "go it" and anon to "vote for Pedder", his curiosity wasaroused. He dismounted and pushed his way through the crowd until hegot a clear view of what was happening below.
　　He was just in time to see the most stirring incident of the fight. Thebiggest of the Judy boats had been propelled by the current nearer andnearer to the Dexter Argo. No sooner was it within distance thanJackson, dropping his oar, grasped the side and pulled it towards him.
　　The two boats crashed together and rocked violently as the crews rosefrom their seats and grappled with one another. A hurricane of laughterand applause went up from the crowd upon the bridge.
　　The next moment both boats were bottom upwards and drifting sluggishlydown towards the island, while the crews swam like rats for the otherboats.
　　Every Wrykinian had to learn to swim before he was allowed on theriver; so that the peril of Jackson and his crew was not extreme: andit was soon speedily evident that swimming was also part of the Judycurriculum, for the shipwrecked ones were soon climbing drippingly onboard the surviving ships, where they sat and made puddles, andshrieked defiance at their antagonists.
　　This was accepted by both sides as the end of the fight, and thecombatants parted without further hostilities, each fleet believingthat the victory was with them.
　　And Mr Dexter, mounting his bicycle again, rode home to tell theheadmaster.
　　That evening, after preparation, the headmaster held a reception. Amongdistinguished visitors were Jackson, Painter, Tomlin, Crowle, and sixothers.
　　On the Monday morning the headmaster issued a manifesto to the schoolafter prayers. He had, he said, for some time entertained the idea ofplacing the town out of bounds. He would do so now. No boy, unless hewas a prefect, would be allowed till further notice to cross the townbridge. As regarded the river, for the future boating Wrykinians mustconfine their attentions to the lower river. Nobody must take a boatup-stream. The school boatman would have strict orders to see that thisrule was rigidly enforced. Any breach of these bounds would, heconcluded, be punished with the utmost severity.
　　The headmaster of Wrykyn was not a hasty man. He thought before he puthis foot down. But when he did, he put it down heavily.
　　Sheen heard the ultimatum with dismay. He was a law-abiding person, andhere he was, faced with a dilemma that made it necessary for him tochoose between breaking school rules of the most important kind, orpulling down all the castles he had built in the air before the mortarhad had time to harden between their stones.
　　He wished he could talk it over with somebody. But he had nobody withwhom he could talk over anything. He must think it out for himself.
　　He spent the rest of the day thinking it out, and by nightfall he hadcome to his decision.
　　Even at the expense of breaking bounds and the risk of being caught atit, he must keep his appointment with Joe Bevan. It would mean going tothe town landing-stage for a boat, thereby breaking bounds twice over.
　　But it would have to be done.
Chapter 9 Sheen Begins His Education
The "Blue Boar" was a picturesque inn, standing on the bank of theriver Severn. It was much frequented in the summer by fishermen, whospent their days in punts and their evenings in the old oak parlour,where a picture in boxing costume of Mr Joe Bevan, whose brother wasthe landlord of the inn, gazed austerely down on them, as if hedisapproved of the lamentable want of truth displayed by the majorityof their number. Artists also congregated there to paint theivy-covered porch. At the back of the house were bedrooms, to which thefishermen would make their way in the small hours of a summer morning,arguing to the last as they stumbled upstairs. One of these bedrooms,larger than the others, had been converted into a gymnasium for the useof mine host's brother. Thither he brought pugilistic aspirants whowished to be trained for various contests, and it was the boast of the"Blue Boar" that it had never turned out a loser. A reputation of thiskind is a valuable asset to an inn, and the boxing world thought highlyof it, in spite of the fact that it was off the beaten track. Certainlythe luck of the "Blue Boar" had been surprising.
　　Sheen pulled steadily up stream on the appointed day, and after half anhour's work found himself opposite the little landing-stage at the footof the inn lawn.
　　His journey had not been free from adventure. On his way to the town hehad almost run into Mr Templar, and but for the lucky accident of thatgentleman's short sight must have been discovered. He had reached thelanding-stage in safety, but he had not felt comfortable until he waswell out of sight of the town. It was fortunate for him in the presentcase that he was being left so severely alone by the school. It was anadvantage that nobody took the least interest in his goings andcomings.
　　Having moored his boat and proceeded to the inn, he was directedupstairs by the landlord, who was an enlarged and coloured edition ofhis brother. From the other side of the gymnasium door came anunceasing and mysterious shuffling sound.
　　He tapped at the door and went in.
　　He found himself in a large, airy room, lit by two windows and a broadskylight. The floor was covered with linoleum. But it was the furniturethat first attracted his attention. In a farther corner of the room wasa circular wooden ceiling, supported by four narrow pillars. From thecentre of this hung a ball, about the size of an ordinary football. Tothe left, suspended from a beam, was an enormous leather bolster. Onthe floor, underneath a table bearing several pairs of boxing-gloves, askipping-rope, and some wooden dumb-bells, was something that lookedlike a dozen Association footballs rolled into one. All the rest of theroom, a space some few yards square, was bare of furniture. In thisspace a small sweater-clad youth, with a head of light hair croppedvery short, was darting about and ducking and hitting out with bothhands at nothing, with such a serious, earnest expression on his facethat Sheen could not help smiling. On a chair by one of the windows MrJoe Bevan was sitting, with a watch in his hand.
　　As Sheen entered the room the earnest young man made a sudden dash athim. The next moment he seemed to be in a sort of heavy shower offists. They whizzed past his ear, flashed up from below within an inchof his nose, and tapped him caressingly on the waistcoat. Just as theshower was at its heaviest his assailant darted away again,side-stepped an imaginary blow, ducked another, and came at him oncemore. None of the blows struck him, but it was with more than a littlepleasure that he heard Joe Bevan call "Time!" and saw the active younggentleman sink panting into a seat.
　　"You and your games, Francis!" said Joe Bevan, reproachfully. "This isa young gentleman from the college come for tuition.""Gentleman--won't mind--little joke--take it in spirit whichis--meant," said Francis, jerkily.
　　Sheen hastened to assure him that he had not been offended.
　　"You take your two minutes, Francis," said Mr Bevan, "and then have aturn with the ball. Come this way, Mr--""Sheen.""Come this way, Mr Sheen, and I'll show you where to put on yourthings."Sheen had brought his football clothes with him. He had not put them onfor a year.
　　"That's the lad I was speaking of. Getting on prime, he is. Fit tofight for his life, as the saying is.""What was he doing when I came in?""Oh, he always has three rounds like that every day. It teaches you toget about quick. You try it when you get back, Mr Sheen. Fancy you'refighting me.""Are you sure I'm not interrupting you in the middle of your work?"asked Sheen.
　　"Not at all, sir, not at all. I just have to rub him down, and give himhis shower-bath, and then he's finished for the day."Having donned his football clothes and returned to the gymnasium, Sheenfound Francis in a chair, having his left leg vigorously rubbed by MrBevan.
　　"You fon' of dargs?" inquired Francis affably, looking up as he camein.
　　Sheen replied that he was, and, indeed, was possessed of one. Theadmission stimulated Francis, whose right leg was now under treatment,to a flood of conversation. He, it appeared, had always been one fordargs. Owned two. Answering to the names of Tim and Tom. Beggars forrats, yes. And plucked 'uns? Well--he would like to see, would Francis,a dog that Tim or Tom would not stand up to. Clever, too. Why once--Joe Bevan cut his soliloquy short at this point by leading him off toanother room for his shower-bath; but before he went he expressed adesire to talk further with Sheen on the subject of dogs, and, learningthat Sheen would be there every day, said he was glad to hear it. Headded that for a brother dog-lover he did not mind stretching a point,so that, if ever Sheen wanted a couple of rounds any day, he, Francis,would see that he got them. This offer, it may be mentioned, Sheenaccepted with gratitude, and the extra practice he acquired thereby wassubsequently of the utmost use to him. Francis, as a boxer, excelled inwhat is known in pugilistic circles as shiftiness. That is to say, hehad a number of ingenious ways of escaping out of tight corners; andthese he taught Sheen, much to the latter's profit.
　　But this was later, when the Wrykinian had passed those preliminarystages on which he was now to embark.
　　The art of teaching boxing really well is a gift, and it is given tobut a few. It is largely a matter of personal magnetism, and, aboveall, sympathy. A man may be a fine boxer himself, up to every move ofthe game, and a champion of champions, but for all that he may not be agood teacher. If he has not the sympathy necessary for the appreciationof the difficulties experienced by the beginner, he cannot produce goodresults. A boxing instructor needs three qualities--skill, sympathy,and enthusiasm. Joe Bevan had all three, particularly enthusiasm. Hisheart was in his work, and he carried Sheen with him. "Beautiful, sir,beautiful," he kept saying, as he guarded the blows; and Sheen, thoughtoo clever to be wholly deceived by the praise, for he knew perfectlywell that his efforts up to the present had been anything butbeautiful, was nevertheless encouraged, and put all he knew into hishits. Occasionally Joe Bevan would push out his left glove. Then, ifSheen's guard was in the proper place and the push did not reach itsdestination, Joe would mutter a word of praise. If Sheen dropped hisright hand, so that he failed to stop the blow, Bevan would observe,"Keep that guard up, sir!" with almost a pained intonation, as if hehad been disappointed in a friend.
　　The constant repetition of this maxim gradually drove it into Sheen'shead, so that towards the end of the lesson he no longer lowered hisright hand when he led with his left; and he felt the gentle pressureof Joe Bevan's glove less frequently. At no stage of a pupil'seducation did Joe Bevan hit him really hard, and in the first fewlessons he could scarcely be said to hit him at all. He merely restedhis glove against the pupil's face. On the other hand, he was urgent inimploring the pupil to hit _him_ as hard as he could.
　　"Don't be too kind, sir," he would chant, "I don't mind being hit. Letme have it. Don't flap. Put it in with some weight behind it." He wasalso fond of mentioning that extract from Polonius' speech to Laertes,which he had quoted to Sheen on their first meeting.
　　Sheen finished his first lesson, feeling hotter than he had ever feltin his life.
　　"Hullo, sir, you're out of condition," commented Mr Bevan. "Have a bitof a rest."Once more Sheen had learnt the lesson of his weakness. He could hardlyrealise that he had only begun to despise himself in the lastfortnight. Before then, he had been, on the whole, satisfied withhimself. He was brilliant at work, and would certainly get ascholarship at Oxford or Cambridge when the time came; and he hadspecialised in work to the exclusion of games. It is bad to specialisein games to the exclusion of work, but of the two courses the latter isprobably the less injurious. One gains at least health by it.
　　But Sheen now understood thoroughly, what he ought to have learned fromhis study of the Classics, that the happy mean was the thing at whichto strive. And for the future he meant to aim at it. He would get theGotford, if he could, but also would he win the house boxing at hisweight.
　　After he had rested he discovered the use of the big ball beneath thetable. It was soft, but solid and heavy. By throwing this--themedicine-ball, as they call it in the profession--at Joe Bevan, andcatching it, Sheen made himself very hot again, and did the muscles ofhis shoulders a great deal of good.
　　"That'll do for today, then, sir." said Joe Bevan. "Have a good rubdown tonight, or you'll find yourself very stiff in the morning.""Well, do you think I shall be any good?" asked Sheen.
　　"You'll do fine, sir. But remember what Shakespeare says.""About vaulting ambition?""No, sir, no. I meant what Hamlet says to the players. 'Nor do not sawthe air too much, with your hand, thus, but use all gently.' That'swhat you've got to remember in boxing, sir. Take it easy. Easy and cooldoes it, and the straight left beats the world."* * * * *Sheen paddled quietly back to the town with the stream, pondering overthis advice. He felt that he had advanced another step. He was notfoolish enough to believe that he knew anything about boxing as yet,but he felt that it would not be long before he did.
Chapter 10 Sheen's Progress
Sheen improved. He took to boxing as he had taken to fives. He foundthat his fives helped him. He could get about on his feet quickly, andhis eye was trained to rapid work.
　　His second lesson was not encouraging. He found that he had learnedjust enough to make him stiff and awkward, and no more. But he kept on,and by the end of the first week Joe Bevan declared definitely that hewould do, that he had the root of the matter in him, and now requiredonly practice.
　　"I wish you could see like I can how you're improving," he said at theend of the sixth lesson, as they were resting after five minutes'
　　exercise with the medicine-ball. "I get four blows in on some of thegentlemen I teach to one what I get in on you. But it's like riding.
　　When you can trot, you look forward to when you can gallop. And whenyou can gallop, you can't see yourself getting on any further. Butyou're improving all the time.""But I can't gallop yet," said Sheen.
　　"Well, no, not gallop exactly, but you've only had six lessons. Why, inanother six weeks, if you come regular, you won't know yourself. You'llbe making some of the young gentlemen at the college wish they hadnever been born. You'll make babies of them, that's what you'll do.""I'll bet I couldn't, if I'd learnt with some one else," said Sheen,sincerely. "I don't believe I should have learnt a thing if I'd gone tothe school instructor.""Who is your school instructor, sir?""A man named Jenkins. He used to be in the army.""Well, there, you see, that's what it is. I know old George Jenkins. Heused to be a pretty good boxer in his time, but there! boxing's athing, like everything else, that moves with the times. We used to goabout in iron trucks. Now we go in motor-cars. Just the same withboxing. What you're learning now is the sort of boxing that winschampionship fights nowadays. Old George, well, he teaches you how toput your left out, but, my Golly, he doesn't know any tricks. He hasn'tstudied it same as I have. It's the ring-craft that wins battles. Nowsir, if you're ready."They put on the gloves again. When the round was over, Mr Bevan hadfurther comments to make.
　　"You don't hit hard enough, sir," he said. "Don't flap. Let it comestraight out with some weight behind it. You want to be earnest in thering. The other man's going to do his best to hurt you, and you've gotto stop him. One good punch is worth twenty taps. You hit him. And whenyou've hit him, don't you go back; you hit him again. They'll only giveyou three rounds in any competition you go in for, so you want to dothe work you can while you're at it."As the days went by, Sheen began to imbibe some of Joe Bevan's ruggedphilosophy of life. He began to understand that the world is a placewhere every man has to look after himself, and that it is the strongerhand that wins. That sentence from _Hamlet_ which Joe Bevan was sofond of quoting practically summed up the whole duty of man--and boytoo. One should not seek quarrels, but, "being in," one should do one'sbest to ensure that one's opponent thought twice in future beforeseeking them. These afternoons at the "Blue Boar" were gradually givingSheen what he had never before possessed--self-confidence. He wasbeginning to find that he was capable of something after all, that inan emergency he would be able to keep his end up. The feeling added azest to all that he did. His work in school improved. He looked at theGotford no longer as a prize which he would have to struggle to win. Hefelt that his rivals would have to struggle to win it from him.
　　After his twelfth lesson, when he had learned the ground-work of theart, and had begun to develop a style of his own, like some nervousbatsman at cricket who does not show his true form till he has been atthe wickets for several overs, the dog-loving Francis gave him a trial.
　　This was a very different affair from his spars with Joe Bevan. FrankHunt was one of the cleverest boxers at his weight in England, but hehad not Joe Bevan's gift of hitting gently. He probably imagined thathe was merely tapping, and certainly his blows were not to be comparedwith those he delivered in the exercise of his professional duties;but, nevertheless, Sheen had never felt anything so painful before, noteven in his passage of arms with Albert. He came out of the encounterwith a swollen lip and a feeling that one of his ribs was broken, andhe had not had the pleasure of landing a single blow upon his slipperyantagonist, who flowed about the room like quicksilver. But he had notflinched, and the statement of Francis, as they shook hands, that hehad "done varry well," was as balm. Boxing is one of the few sportswhere the loser can feel the same thrill of triumph as the winner.
　　There is no satisfaction equal to that which comes when one has forcedoneself to go through an ordeal from which one would have liked to haveescaped.
　　"Capital, sir, capital," said Joe Bevan. "I wanted to see whether youwould lay down or not when you began to get a few punches. You didcapitally, Mr Sheen.""I didn't hit him much," said Sheen with a laugh.
　　"Never mind, sir, you got hit, which was just as good. Some of thegentlemen I've taught wouldn't have taken half that. They're all rightwhen they're on top and winning, and to see them shape you'd say toyourself, By George, here's a champion. But let 'em get a punch or two,and hullo! says you, what's this? They don't like it. They lay down.
　　But you kept on. There's one thing, though, you want to keep that guardup when you duck. You slip him that way once. Very well. Next time he'swaiting for you. He doesn't hit straight. He hooks you, and you don'twant many of those."Sheen enjoyed his surreptitious visits to the "Blue Boar." Twice heescaped being caught in the most sensational way; and once Mr Spence,who looked after the Wrykyn cricket and gymnasium, and playedeverything equally well, nearly caused complications by inviting Sheento play fives with him after school. Fortunately the Gotford affordedan excellent excuse. As the time for the examination drew near, thosewho had entered for it were accustomed to become hermits to a greatextent, and to retire after school to work in their studies.
　　"You mustn't overdo it, Sheen," said Mr Spence. "You ought to get someexercise.""Oh, I do, sir," said Sheen. "I still play fives, but I play beforebreakfast now."He had had one or two games with Harrington of the School House, whodid not care particularly whom he played with so long as his opponentwas a useful man. Sheen being one of the few players in the school whowere up to his form, Harrington ignored the cloud under which Sheenrested. When they met in the world outside the fives-courts Harringtonwas polite, but made no overtures of friendship. That, it may bementioned, was the attitude of every one who did not actually cutSheen. The exception was Jack Bruce, who had constituted himselfaudience to Sheen, when the latter was practising the piano, on twofurther occasions. But then Bruce was so silent by nature that for allpractical purposes he might just as well have cut Sheen like theothers.
　　"We might have a game before breakfast some time, then," said MrSpence.
　　He had noticed, being a master who did notice things, that Sheenappeared to have few friends, and had made up his mind that he wouldtry and bring him out a little. Of the real facts of the case, he knewof course, nothing.
　　"I should like to, sir," said Sheen.
　　"Next Wednesday?""All right, sir.""I'll be there at seven. If you're before me, you might get the secondcourt, will you?"The second court from the end nearest the boarding-house was the bestof the half-dozen fives-courts at Wrykyn. After school sometimes youwould see fags racing across the gravel to appropriate it for theirmasters. The rule was that whoever first pinned to the door a piece ofpaper with his name on it was the legal owner of the court-and it was astirring sight to see a dozen fags fighting to get at the door. Butbefore breakfast the court might be had with less trouble.
　　* * * * *Meanwhile, Sheen paid his daily visits to the "Blue Boar," losing fleshand gaining toughness with every lesson. The more he saw of Joe Bevanthe more he liked him, and appreciated his strong, simple outlook onlife. Shakespeare was a great bond between them. Sheen had always beena student of the Bard, and he and Joe would sit on the little verandahof the inn, looking over the river, until it was time for him to rowback to the town, quoting passages at one another. Joe Bevan'sknowledge, of the plays, especially the tragedies, was wide, and atfirst inexplicable to Sheen. It was strange to hear him declaiming longspeeches from _Macbeth_ or _Hamlet_, and to think that he wasby profession a pugilist. One evening he explained his curiouserudition. In his youth, before he took to the ring in earnest, he hadtravelled with a Shakespearean repertory company. "I never played astar part," he confessed, "but I used to come on in the Battle ofBosworth and in Macbeth's castle and what not. I've been First Citizensometimes. I was the carpenter in _Julius Caesar_. That was mybiggest part. 'Truly sir, in respect of a fine workman, I am but, asyou would say, a cobbler.' But somehow the stage--well..._you_know what it is, sir. Leeds one week, Manchester the next, Brighton theweek after, and travelling all Sunday. It wasn't quiet enough for me."The idea of becoming a professional pugilist for the sake of peace andquiet tickled Sheen. "But I've always read Shakespeare ever sincethen," continued Mr Bevan, "and I always shall read him."It was on the next day that Mr Bevan made a suggestion which drewconfidences from Sheen, in his turn.
　　"What you want now, sir," he said, "is to practise on someone of aboutyour own form, as the saying is. Isn't there some gentleman friend ofyours at the college who would come here with you?"They were sitting on the verandah when he asked this question. It wasgrowing dusk, and the evening seemed to invite confidences. Sheen,looking out across the river and avoiding his friend's glance,explained just what it was that made it so difficult for him to producea gentleman friend at that particular time. He could feel Mr Bevan'seye upon him, but he went through with it till the thing wastold--boldly, and with no attempt to smooth over any of the unpleasantpoints.
　　"Never you mind, sir," said Mr Bevan consolingly, as he finished. "Weall lose our heads sometimes. I've seen the way you stand up toFrancis, and I'll eat--I'll eat the medicine-ball if you're not asplucky as anyone. It's simply a question of keeping your head. Youwouldn't do a thing like that again, not you. Don't you worry yourself,sir. We're all alike when we get bustled. We don't know what we'redoing, and by the time we've put our hands up and got into shape, why,it's all over, and there you are. Don't you worry yourself, sir.""You're an awfully good sort, Joe," said Sheen gratefully.
Chapter 11 A Small Incident
Failing a gentleman friend, Mr Bevan was obliged to do what he could bymeans of local talent. On Sheen's next visit he was introduced to aburly youth of his own age, very taciturn, and apparently ferocious.
　　He, it seemed, was the knife and boot boy at the "Blue Boar", "did abit" with the gloves, and was willing to spar with Sheen provided MrBevan made it all right with the guv'nor; saw, that is so say, that hedid not get into trouble for passing in unprofessional frivolitymoments which should have been sacred to knives and boots. These termshaving been agreed to, he put on the gloves.
　　For the first time since he had begun his lessons, Sheen experienced anattack of his old shyness and dislike of hurting other people'sfeelings. He could not resist the thought that he had no grudge againstthe warden of the knives and boots. He hardly liked to hit him.
　　The other, however, did not share this prejudice. He rushed at Sheenwith such determination, that almost the first warning the latter hadthat the contest had begun was the collision of the back of his headwith the wall. Out in the middle of the room he did better, and wasbeginning to hold his own, in spite of a rousing thump on his left eye,when Joe Bevan called "Time!" A second round went off in much the sameway. His guard was more often in the right place, and his leads lesswild. At the conclusion of the round, pressure of business forced hisopponent to depart, and Sheen wound up his lesson with a couple ofminutes at the punching-ball. On the whole, he was pleased with hisfirst spar with someone who was really doing his best and trying tohurt him. With Joe Bevan and Francis there was always the feeling thatthey were playing down to him. Joe Bevan's gentle taps, in particular,were a little humiliating. But with his late opponent all had beenserious. It had been a real test, and he had come through it veryfairly. On the whole, he had taken more than he had given--his eyewould look curious tomorrow--but already he had thought out a way offoiling the burly youth's rushes. Next time he would really show histrue form.
　　The morrow, on which Sheen expected his eye to look curious, was theday he had promised to play fives with Mr Spence. He hoped that at theearly hour at which they had arranged to play it would not have reachedits worst stage; but when he looked in the glass at a quarter to seven,he beheld a small ridge of purple beneath it. It was not large, nor didit interfere with his sight, but it was very visible. Mr Spence,however, was a sportsman, and had boxed himself in his time, so therewas a chance that nothing would be said.
　　It was a raw, drizzly morning. There would probably be fewfives-players before breakfast, and the capture of the second courtshould be easy. So it turned out. Nobody was about when Sheen arrived.
　　He pinned his slip of paper to the door, and, after waiting for a shortwhile for Mr Spence and finding the process chilly, went for a trotround the gymnasium to pass the time.
　　Mr Spence had not arrived during his absence, but somebody else had. Atthe door of the second court, gleaming in first-fifteen blazer,sweater, stockings, and honour-cap, stood Attell.
　　Sheen looked at Attell, and Attell looked through Sheen.
　　It was curious, thought Sheen, that Attell should be standing in thevery doorway of court two. It seemed to suggest that he claimed somesort of ownership. On the other hand, there was his, Sheen's, paper onthe....His eye happened to light on the cement flooring in front of thecourt. There was a crumpled ball of paper there.
　　When he had started for his run, there had been no such ball of paper.
　　Sheen picked it up and straightened it out. On it was written "R. D.
　　Sheen".
　　He looked up quickly. In addition to the far-away look, Attell's facenow wore a faint smile, as if he had seen something rather funny on thehorizon. But he spake no word.
　　A curiously calm and contented feeling came upon Sheen. Here wassomething definite at last. He could do nothing, however much he mightresent it, when fellows passed him by as if he did not exist; but whenit came to removing his landmark....
　　"Would you mind shifting a bit?" he said very politely. "I want to pinmy paper on the door again. It seems to have fallen down."Attell's gaze shifted slowly from the horizon and gradually embracedSheen.
　　"I've got this court," he said.
　　"I think not," said Sheen silkily. "I was here at ten to seven, andthere was no paper on the door then. So I put mine up. If you move alittle, I'll put it up again.""Go and find another court, if you want to play," said Attell, "and ifyou've got anybody to play with," he added with a sneer. "This ismine.""I think not," said Sheen.
　　Attell resumed his inspection of the horizon.
　　"Attell," said Sheen.
　　Attell did not answer.
　　Sheen pushed him gently out of the way, and tore down the paper fromthe door.
　　Their eyes met. Attell, after a moment's pause, came forward,half-menacing, half irresolute; and as he came Sheen hit him under thechin in the manner recommended by Mr Bevan.
　　"When you upper-cut," Mr Bevan was wont to say, "don't make it a swing.
　　Just a half-arm jolt's all you want."It was certainly all Attell wanted. He was more than surprised. He waspetrified. The sudden shock of the blow, coming as it did from sounexpected a quarter, deprived him of speech: which was, perhaps,fortunate for him, for what he would have said would hardly havecommended itself to Mr Spence, who came up at this moment.
　　"Well, Sheen," said Mr Spence, "here you are. I hope I haven't kept youwaiting. What a morning! You've got the court, I hope?""Yes, sir," said Sheen.
　　He wondered if the master had seen the little episode which had takenplace immediately before his arrival. Then he remembered that it hadhappened inside the court. It must have been over by the time Mr Spencehad come upon the scene.
　　"Are you waiting for somebody, Attell?" asked Mr Spence. "Stanning? Hewill be here directly. I passed him on the way."Attell left the court, and they began their game.
　　"You've hurt your eye, Sheen," said Mr Spence, at the end of the firstgame. "How did that happen?""Boxing, sir," said Sheen.
　　"Oh," replied Mr Spence, and to Sheen's relief he did not pursue hisinquiries.
　　Attell had wandered out across the gravel to meet Stanning.
　　"Got that court?" inquired Stanning.
　　"No.""You idiot, why on earth didn't you? It's the only court worth playingin. Who's got it?""Sheen.""Sheen!" Stanning stopped dead. "Do you mean to say you let a fool likeSheen take it from you! Why didn't you turn him out?""I couldn't," said Attell. "I was just going to when Spence came up.
　　He's playing Sheen this morning. I couldn't very well bag the courtwhen a master wanted it.""I suppose not," said Stanning. "What did Sheen say when you told himyou wanted the court?"This was getting near a phase of the subject which Attell was not eagerto discuss.
　　"Oh, he didn't say much," he said.
　　"Did you do anything?" persisted Stanning.
　　Attell suddenly remembered having noticed that Sheen was wearing ablack eye. This was obviously a thing to be turned to account.
　　"I hit him in the eye," he said. "I'll bet it's coloured byschool-time."And sure enough, when school-tune arrived, there was Sheen with hisface in the condition described, and Stanning hastened to spread abroadthis sequel to the story of Sheen's failings in the town battle. By theend of preparation it had got about the school that Sheen had cheekedAttell, that Attell had hit Sheen, and that Sheen had been afraid tohit him back. At the precise moment when Sheen was in the middle of awarm two-minute round with Francis at the "Blue Boar," an indignationmeeting was being held in the senior day-room at Seymour's to discussthis latest disgrace to the house.
　　"This is getting a bit too thick," was the general opinion. Moreover,it was universally agreed that something ought to be done. The feelingin the house against Sheen had been stirred to a dangerous pitch bythis last episode. Seymour's thought more of their reputation than anyhouse in the school. For years past the house had led on the cricketand football field and off it. Sometimes other houses would actuallywin one of the cups, but, when this happened, Seymour's was alwaystheir most dangerous rival. Other houses had their ups and downs, werevery good one year and very bad the next; but Seymour's had alwaysmanaged to maintain a steady level of excellence. It always had a manor two in the School eleven and fifteen, generally supplied one of theSchool Racquets pair for Queen's Club in the Easter vac., and when thisdid not happen always had one of two of the Gym. Six or Shooting Eight,or a few men who had won scholarships at the 'Varsities. The pride of ahouse is almost keener than the pride of a school. From the firstminute he entered the house a new boy was made to feel that, in comingto Seymour's, he had accepted a responsibility that his reputation wasnot his own, but belonged to the house. If he did well, the glory wouldbe Seymour's glory. If he did badly, he would be sinning against thehouse.
　　This second story about Sheen, therefore, stirred Seymour's to theextent of giving the house a resemblance to a hornet's nest into whicha stone had been hurled. After school that day the house literallyhummed. The noise of the two day-rooms talking it over could be heardin the road outside. The only bar that stood between the outragedSeymourites and Sheen was Drummond. As had happened before, Drummondresolutely refused to allow anything in the shape of an active protest,and no argument would draw him from this unreasonable attitude, thoughwhy it was that he had taken it up he himself could not have said.
　　Perhaps it was that rooted hatred a boxer instinctively acquires ofanything in the shape of unfair play that influenced him. He revoltedagainst the idea of a whole house banding together against one of itsmembers.
　　So even this fresh provocation did not result in any activeinterference with Sheen; but it was decided that he must be cut evenmore thoroughly than before.
　　And about the time when this was resolved, Sheen was receiving thecongratulations of Francis on having positively landed a blow upon him.
　　It was an event which marked an epoch in his career.
Chapter 12 Dunstable And Linton Go Up The River
There are some proud, spirited natures which resent rules and laws onprinciple as attempts to interfere with the rights of the citizen. Asthe Duchess in the play said of her son, who had had unpleasantnesswith the authorities at Eton because they had been trying to teach himthings, "Silwood is a sweet boy, but he will not stand thebearing-rein". Dunstable was also a sweet boy, but he, too, objected tothe bearing-rein. And Linton was a sweet boy, and he had similarprejudices. And this placing of the town out of bounds struck both ofthem simultaneously as a distinct attempt on the part of the headmasterto apply the bearing-rein.
　　"It's all very well to put it out of bounds for the kids," saidDunstable, firmly, "but when it comes to Us--why, I never heard of sucha thing."Linton gave it as his opinion that such conduct was quite in a class ofits own as regarded cool cheek.
　　"It fairly sneaks," said Linton, with forced calm, "the Garibaldi.""Kids," proceeded Dunstable, judicially, "are idiots, and can't beexpected to behave themselves down town. Put the show out of bounds tothem if you like. But We--""We!" echoed Linton.
　　"The fact is," said Dunstable, "it's a beastly nuisance, but we shallhave to go down town and up the river just to assert ourselves. Wecan't have the thin end of the wedge coming and spoiling our liberties.
　　We may as well chuck life altogether if we aren't able to go to thetown whenever we like.""And Albert will be pining away," added Linton.
　　* * * * *"Hullo, young gentlemen," said the town boatman, when they presentedthemselves to him, "what can I do for you?""I know it seems strange," said Dunstable, "but we want a boat. We arethe Down-trodden British Schoolboys' League for Demanding Liberty andseeing that We Get It. Have you a boat?"The man said he believed he had a boat. In fact, now that he came tothink of it, he rather fancied he had one or two. He proceeded to getone ready, and the two martyrs to the cause stepped in.
　　Dunstable settled himself in the stern, and collected the rudder-lines.
　　"Hullo," said Linton, "aren't you going to row?""It may be only my foolish fancy," replied Dunstable, "but I ratherthink you're going to do that. I'll steer.""Beastly slacker," said Linton. "Anyhow, how far are we going? I'm notgoing to pull all night.""If you row for about half an hour without exerting yourself--and I cantrust you not to do that--and then look to your left, you'll see acertain hostelry, if it hasn't moved since I was last there. It'scalled the 'Blue Boar'. We will have tea there, and then I'll pullgently back, and that will end the programme.""Except being caught in the town by half the masters," said Linton.
　　"Still, I'm not grumbling. This had to be done. Ready?""Not just yet," said Dunstable, looking past Linton and up thelanding-stage. "Wait just one second. Here are some friends of ours."Linton looked over his shoulder.
　　"Albert!" he cried.
　　"And the who struck me divers blows in sundryplaces. Ah, they've sighted us.""What are you going to do? We can't have another scrap with them.""Far from it," said Dunstable gently. "Hullo, Albert. _And_ myfriend in the moth-eaten bowler! This is well met.""You come out here," said Albert, pausing on the brink.
　　"Why?" asked Dunstable.
　　"You see what you'll get.""But we don't want to see what we'll get. You've got such a narrowmind, Albert--may I call you Bertie? You seem to think that nobody hasany pleasures except vulgar brawls. We are going to row up river, andthink beautiful thoughts."Albert was measuring with his eye the distance between the boat andlanding-stage. It was not far. A sudden spring....
　　"If you want a fight, go up to the school and ask for Mr Drummond. He'sthe gentlemen who sent you to hospital last time. Any time you'repassing, I'm sure he'd--"Albert leaped.
　　But Linton had had him under observation, and, as he sprung, pushedvigorously with his oar. The gap between boat and shore widened in aninstant, and Albert, failing to obtain a foothold on the boat, fellback, with a splash that sent a cascade over his friend and theboatman, into three feet of muddy water. By the time he had scrambledout, his enemies were moving pensively up-stream.
　　The boatman was annoyed.
　　"Makin' me wet and spoilin' my paint--what yer mean by it?""Me and my friend here we want a boat," said Albert, ignoring the mainissue.
　　"Want a boat! Then you'll not get a boat. Spoil my cushions, too, wouldyou? What next, I wonder! You go to Smith and ask _him_ for aboat. Perhaps he ain't so particular about having his cushions--""Orl right," said Albert, "_orl_ right."Mr Smith proved more complaisant, and a quarter of an hour afterDunstable and Linton had disappeared, Albert and his friend were on thewater. Moist outside, Albert burned with a desire for Revenge. He meantto follow his men till he found them. It almost seemed as if therewould be a repetition of the naval battle which had caused the town tobe put out of bounds. Albert was a quick-tempered youth, and he hadswallowed fully a pint of Severn water.
　　* * * * *Dunstable and Linton sat for some time in the oak parlour of the "BlueBoar". It was late when they went out. As they reached the water's edgeLinton uttered a cry of consternation.
　　"What's up?" asked Dunstable. "I wish you wouldn't do that so suddenly.
　　It gives me a start. Do you feel bad?""Great Scott! it's gone.""The pain?""Our boat. I tied it up to this post.""You can't have done. What's that boat over there! That looks likeours.""No, it isn't. That was there when we came. I noticed it. I tied oursup here, to this post.""This is a shade awkward," said Dunstable thoughtfully. "You must havetied it up jolly rottenly. It must have slipped away and gonedown-stream. This is where we find ourselves in the cart. Right amongthe ribstons, by Jove. I feel like that Frenchman in the story, wholost his glasses just as he got to the top of the mountain, and missedthe view. Altogezzer I do not vish I 'ad kom.""I'm certain I tied it up all right. And--why, look! here's the ropestill on the pole, just as I left it."For the first time Dunstable seemed interested.
　　"This is getting mysterious. Did we hire a rowing-boat or a submarine?
　　There's something on the end of this rope. Give it a tug, and see.
　　There, didn't you feel it?""I do believe," said Linton in an awed voice, "the thing's sunk."They pulled at the rope together. The waters heaved and broke, and upcame the nose of the boat, to sink back with a splash as they loosenedtheir hold.
　　"There are more things in Heaven and Earth--" said Dunstable, wipinghis hands. "If you ask me, I should say an enemy hath done this. A boatdoesn't sink of its own accord.""Albert!" said Linton. "The blackguard must have followed us up anddone it while we were at tea.""That's about it," said Dunstable. "And now--how about getting home?""I suppose we'd better walk. We shall be hours late for lock-up.""You," said Dunstable, "may walk if you are fond of exercise and aren'tin a hurry. Personally, I'm going back by river.""But--""That looks a good enough boat over there. Anyhow, we must make it do.
　　One mustn't be particular for once.""But it belongs--what will the other fellow do?""I can't help _his_ troubles," said Dunstable mildly, "havingenough of my own. Coming?"* * * * *It was about ten minutes later that Sheen, approaching the waterside inquest of his boat, found no boat there. The time was a quarter to six,and lock-up was at six-thirty.
Chapter 13 Deus Ex Machina
It did not occur to Sheen immediately that his boat had actually gone.
　　The full beauty of the situation was some moments in coming home tohim. At first he merely thought that somebody had moved it to anotherpart of the bank, as the authorities at the inn had done once or twicein the past, to make room for the boats of fresh visitors. Walkingalong the lawn in search of it, he came upon the stake to whichDunstable's submerged craft was attached. He gave the rope a tentativepull, and was surprised to find that there was a heavy drag on the endof it.
　　Then suddenly the truth flashed across him. "Heavens!" he cried, "it'ssunk."Joe Bevan and other allies lent their aid to the pulling. The lost boatcame out of the river like some huge fish, and finally rested on thebank, oozing water and drenching the grass in all directions.
　　Joe Bevan stooped down, and examined it in the dim light.
　　"What's happened here, sir," he said, "is that there's a plank gonefrom the bottom. Smashed clean out, it is. Not started it isn't.
　　Smashed clean out. That's what it is. Some one must have been here anddone it."Sheen looked at the boat, and saw that he was right. A plank in themiddle had been splintered. It looked as if somebody had driven someheavy instrument into it. As a matter of fact, Albert had effected thejob with the butt-end of an oar.
　　The damage was not ruinous. A carpenter could put the thing right at nogreat expense. But it would take time. And meanwhile the minutes wereflying, and lock-up was now little more than half an hour away.
　　"What'll you do, sir?" asked Bevan.
　　That was just what Sheen was asking himself. What could he do? The roadto the school twisted and turned to such an extent that, though thedistance from the "Blue Boar" to Seymour's was only a couple of milesas the crow flies, he would have to cover double that distance unlesshe took a short cut across the fields. And if he took a short cut inthe dark he was certain to lose himself. It was a choice of evils. The"Blue Boar" possessed but one horse and trap, and he had seen thatdriven away to the station in charge of a fisherman's luggage half anhour before.
　　"I shall have to walk," he said.
　　"It's a long way. You'll be late, won't you?" said Mr Bevan.
　　"It can't be helped. I suppose I shall. I wonder who smashed thatboat," he added after a pause.
　　Passing through the inn on his way to the road, he made inquiries. Itappeared that two young gentlemen from the school had been there totea. They had arrived in a boat and gone away in a boat. Nobody elsehad come into the inn. Suspicion obviously rested upon them.
　　"Do you remember anything about them?" asked Sheen.
　　Further details came out. One of the pair had worn a cap like Sheen's.
　　The other's headgear, minutely described, showed him that its owner wasa member of the school second eleven.
　　Sheen pursued the inquiry. He would be so late in any case that aminute or so more or less would make no material difference; and he wasvery anxious to find out, if possible, who it was that had placed himin this difficulty. He knew that he was unpopular in the school, but hehad not looked for this sort of thing.
　　Then somebody suddenly remembered having heard one of the pair addressthe other by name.
　　"What name?" asked Sheen.
　　His informant was not sure. Would it be Lindon?
　　"Linton," said Sheen.
　　That was it.
　　Sheen thanked him and departed, still puzzled. Linton, as he knew him,was not the sort of fellow to do a thing like that. And the other, thesecond eleven man, must be Dunstable. They were always about together.
　　He did not know much about Dunstable, but he could hardly believe thatthis sort of thing was his form either. Well, he would have to think ofthat later. He must concentrate himself now on covering the distance tothe school in the minimum of time. He looked at his watch. Twentyminutes more. If he hurried, he might not be so very late. He wishedthat somebody would come by in a cart, and give him a lift.
　　He stopped and listened. No sound of horse's hoof broke the silence. Hewalked on again.
　　Then, faint at first, but growing stronger every instant, there camefrom some point in the road far behind him a steady droning sound. Healmost shouted with joy. A motor! Even now he might do it.
　　But could he stop it? Would the motorist pay any attention to him, orwould he flash past and leave him in the dust? From the rate at whichthe drone increased the car seemed to be travelling at a rare speed.
　　He moved to one side of the road, and waited. He could see the lightsnow, flying towards him.
　　Then, as the car hummed past, he recognised its driver, and put all heknew into a shout.
　　"Bruce!" he cried.
　　For a moment it seemed as if he had not been heard. The driver paid notthe smallest attention, as far as he could see. He looked neither tothe left nor to right. Then the car slowed down, and, backing, cameslowly to where he stood.
　　"Hullo," said the driver, "who's that?"Jack Bruce was alone in the car, muffled to the eyes in an overcoat.
　　It was more by his general appearance than his face that Sheen hadrecognised him.
　　"It's me, Sheen. I say, Bruce, I wish you'd give me a lift toSeymour's, will you?"There was never any waste of words about Jack Bruce. Of all the sixhundred and thirty-four boys at Wrykyn he was probably the only onewhose next remark in such circumstances would not have been a question.
　　Bruce seldom asked questions--never, if they wasted time.
　　"Hop in," he said.
　　Sheen consulted his watch again.
　　"Lock-up's in a quarter of an hour," he said, "but they give us tenminutes' grace. That allows us plenty of time, doesn't it?""Do it in seven minutes, if you like.""Don't hurry," said Sheen. "I've never been in a motor before, and Idon't want to cut the experience short. It's awfully good of you togive me a lift.""That's all right," said Bruce.
　　"Were you going anywhere? Am I taking you out of your way?""No. I was just trying the car. It's a new one. The pater's just gotit.""Do you do much of this?" said Sheen.
　　"Good bit. I'm going in for the motor business when I leave school.""So all this is training?""That's it."There was a pause.
　　"You seemed to be going at a good pace just now," said Sheen.
　　"About thirty miles an hour. She can move all right.""That's faster than you're allowed to go, isn't it?""Yes.""You've never been caught, have you?""Not yet. I want to see how much pace I can get out of her, becauseshe'll be useful when the election really comes on. Bringing voters tothe poll, you know. That's why the pater bought this new car. It's abeauty. His other's only a little runabout.""Doesn't your father mind your motoring?""Likes it," said Jack Bruce.
　　It seemed to Sheen that it was about time that he volunteered someinformation about himself, instead of plying his companion withquestions. It was pleasant talking to a Wrykinian again; and Jack Brucehad apparently either not heard of the Albert incident, or else he wasnot influenced by it in any way.
　　"You've got me out of an awful hole, Bruce," he began.
　　"That's all right. Been out for a walk?""I'd been to the 'Blue Boar'.""Oh!" said Bruce. He did not seem to wish to know why Sheen had beenthere.
　　Sheen proceeded to explain.
　　"I suppose you've heard all about me," he said uncomfortably. "Aboutthe town, you know. That fight. Not joining in.""Heard something about it," said Bruce.
　　"I went down town again after that," said Sheen, "and met the samefellows who were fighting Linton and the others. They came for me, andI was getting awfully mauled when Joe Bevan turned up.""Oh, is Joe back again?""Do you know him?" asked Sheen in surprise.
　　"Oh yes. I used to go to the 'Blue Boar' to learn boxing from him alllast summer holidays.""Did you really? Why, that's what I'm doing now.""Good man," said Bruce.
　　"Isn't he a splendid teacher?""Ripping.""But I didn't know you boxed, Bruce. You never went in for any of theSchool competitions.""I'm rather a rotten weight. Ten six. Too heavy for the Light-Weightsand not heavy enough for the Middles. Besides, the competitions hereare really inter-house. They don't want day-boys going in for them. Areyou going to box for Seymour's?""That's what I want to do. You see, it would be rather a score,wouldn't it? After what's happened, you know.""I suppose it would.""I should like to do something. It's not very pleasant," he added, witha forced laugh, "being considered a disgrace to the house, and cut byeveryone.""Suppose not.""The difficulty is Drummond. You see, we are both the same weight, andhe's much better than I am. I'm hoping that he'll go in for the Middlesand let me take the Light-Weights. There's nobody he couldn't beat inthe Middles, though he would be giving away a stone.""Have you asked him?""Not yet. I want to keep it dark that I'm learning to box, just atpresent.""Spring it on them suddenly?""Yes. Of course, I can't let it get about that I go to Joe Bevan,because I have to break bounds every time I do it.""The upper river's out of bounds now for boarders, isn't it?""Yes."Jack Bruce sat in silence for a while, his gaze concentrated on theroad in front of him.
　　"Why go by river at all?" he said at last. "If you like, I'll run youto the 'Blue Boar' in the motor every day.""Oh, I say, that's awfully decent of you," said Sheen.
　　"I should like to see old Joe again. I think I'll come and spar, too.
　　If you're learning, what you want more than anything is somebody yourown size to box with.""That's just what Joe was saying. Will you really? I should be awfullyglad if you would. Boxing with Joe is all right, but you feel all thetime he's fooling with you. I should like to try how I got on withsomebody else.""You'd better meet me here, then, as soon after school as you can."As he spoke, the car stopped.
　　"Where are we?" asked Sheen.
　　"Just at the corner of the road behind the houses.""Oh, I know. Hullo, there goes the lock-up bell. I shall do itcomfortably."He jumped down.
　　"I say, Bruce," he said, "I really am most awfully obliged for thelift. Something went wrong with my boat, and I couldn't get back in it.
　　I should have been frightfully in the cart if you hadn't come by.""That's all right," said Jack Bruce. "I say, Sheen!""Hullo?""Are you going to practise in the music-room after morning schooltomorrow?""Yes. Why?""I think I'll turn up.""I wish you would.""What's that thing that goes like this? I forget most of it."He whistled a few bars.
　　"That's a thing of Greig's," said Sheen.
　　"You might play it tomorrow," said Bruce.
　　"Rather. Of course I will.""Thanks," said Jack Bruce. "Good night."He turned the car, and vanished down the road. From the sound Sheenjudged that he was once more travelling at a higher rate of speed thanthe local police would have approved.
Chapter 14 A Skirmish
Upon consideration Sheen determined to see Linton about that smallmatter of the boat without delay. After prayers that night he went tohis study.
　　"Can I speak to you for a minute, Linton?" he said.
　　Linton was surprised. He disapproved of this intrusion. When a fellowis being cut by the house, he ought, by all the laws of schooletiquette, to behave as such, and not speak till he is spoken to.
　　"What do you want?" asked Linton.
　　"I shan't keep you long. Do you think you could put away that book fora minute, and listen?"Linton hesitated, then shut the book.
　　"Hurry up, then," he said.
　　"I was going to," said Sheen. "I simply came in to tell you that I knowperfectly well who sunk my boat this afternoon."He felt at once that he had now got Linton's undivided attention.
　　"Your boat!" said Linton. "You don't mean to say that was yours! Whaton earth were you doing at the place?""I don't think that's any business of yours, is it, Linton?""How did you get back?""I don't think that's any business of yours, either. I daresay you'redisappointed, but I did manage to get back. In time for lock-up, too.""But I don't understand. Do you mean to say that that was your boat wetook?""Sunk," corrected Sheen.
　　"Don't be a fool, Sheen. What the dickens should we want to sink yourboat for? What happened was this. Albert--you remember Albert?--followedus up to the inn, and smashed our boat while we were having tea. Whenwe got out and found it sunk, we bagged the only other one we couldsee. We hadn't a notion it was yours. We thought it belonged to somefisherman chap.""Then you didn't sink my boat?""Of course we didn't. What do you take us for?""Sorry," said Sheen. "I thought it was a queer thing for you to havedone. I'm glad it wasn't you. Good night.""But look here," said Linton, "don't go. It must have landed you in afrightful hole, didn't it?""A little. But it doesn't matter. Good night.""But half a second, Sheen--"Sheen had disappeared.
　　Linton sat on till lights were turned off, ruminating. He had a verytender conscience where other members of the school were concerned,though it was tougher as regarded masters; and he was full of remorseat the thought of how nearly he had got Sheen into trouble by borrowinghis boat that afternoon. It seemed to him that it was his duty to makeit up to him in some way.
　　It was characteristic of Linton that the episode did not, in any way,alter his attitude towards Sheen. Another boy in a similar positionmight have become effusively friendly. Linton looked on the affair in acalm, judicial spirit. He had done Sheen a bad turn, but that was noreason why he should fling himself on his neck and swear eternalfriendship. His demeanour on the occasions when they came in contactwith each other remained the same. He did not speak to him, and he didnot seem to see him. But all the while he was remembering that somehowor other he must do him a good turn of some sort, by way of levellingthings up again. When that good turn had been done, he might dismisshim from his thoughts altogether.
　　Sheen, for his part, made no attempt to trade on the matter of theboat. He seemed as little anxious to be friendly with Linton as Lintonwas to be friendly with him. For this Linton was grateful, andcontinued to keep his eyes open in the hope of finding some opportunityof squaring up matters between them.
　　His chance was not long in coming. The feeling in the house againstSheen, caused by the story of his encounter with Attell, had notdiminished. Stanning had fostered it in various little ways. It was notdifficult. When a house of the standing in the school which Seymour'spossessed exhibits a weak spot, the rest of the school do not require agreat deal of encouragement to go on prodding that weak spot. In short,the school rotted Seymour's about Sheen, and Seymour's ragedimpotently. Fags of other houses expended much crude satire onSeymour's fags, and even the seniors of the house came in for theirshare of the baiting. Most of the houses at Wrykyn were jealous ofSeymour's, and this struck them as an admirable opportunity of gettingsomething of their own back.
　　One afternoon, not long after Sheen's conversation with Linton,Stanning came into Seymour's senior day-room and sat down on the table.
　　The senior day-room objected to members of other houses coming andsitting on their table as if they had bought that rickety piece offurniture; but Stanning's reputation as a bruiser kept their resentmentwithin bounds.
　　"Hullo, you chaps," said Stanning.
　　The members of the senior day-room made no reply, but continued, as MrKipling has it, to persecute their vocations. Most of them werebrewing. They went on brewing with the earnest concentration of_chefs_.
　　"You're a cheery lot," said Stanning. "But I don't wonder you've gotthe hump. I should be a bit sick if we'd got a skunk like that in ourhouse. Heard the latest?"Some lunatic said, "No. What?" thereby delivering the day-room boundinto the hands of the enemy.
　　"Sheen's apologised to Attell."There was a sensation in the senior day-room, as Stanning had expected.
　　He knew his men. He was perfectly aware that any story which centredround Sheen's cowardice would be believed by them, so he had nottroubled to invent a lie which it would be difficult to disprove. Heknew that in the present state of feeling in the house Sheen would notbe given a hearing.
　　"No!" shouted the senior day-room.
　　This was the last straw. The fellow seemed to go out of his way tolower the prestige of the house.
　　"Fact," said Stanning. "I thought you knew."He continued to sit on the table, swinging his legs, while the fullhorror of his story sunk into the senior day-room mind.
　　"I wonder you don't do something about it. Why don't you touch him up?
　　He's not a prefect."But they were not prepared to go to that length. The senior day-roomhad a great respect both for Drummond's word and his skill with hishands. He had said he would slay any one who touched Sheen, and theywere of opinion that he would do it.
　　"He isn't in," said one of the brewers, looking up from histoasting-fork. "His study door was open when I passed.""I say, why not rag his study?" suggested another thickly, through amouthful of toast.
　　Stanning smiled.
　　"Good idea," he said.
　　It struck him that some small upheaval of Sheen's study furniture,coupled with the burning of one or two books, might check to someextent that student's work for the Gotford. And if Sheen could bestopped working for the Gotford, he, Stanning, would romp home. In thematter of brilliance there was no comparison between them. It wasSheen's painful habit of work which made him dangerous.
　　Linton had been listening to this conversation in silence. He had cometo the senior day-room to borrow a book. He now slipped out, and madehis way to Drummond's study.
　　Drummond was in. Linton proceeded to business.
　　"I say, Drummond.""Hullo?""That man Stanning has come in. He's getting the senior day-room to ragSheen's study.""What!"Linton repeated his statement.
　　"Does the man think he owns the house?" said Drummond. "Where is he?""Coming up now. I hear them. What are you going to do? Stop them?""What do you think? Of course I am. I'm not going to have any ofAppleby's crew coming into Seymour's and ragging studies.""This ought to be worth seeing," said Linton. "Look on me as 'Charles,his friend'. I'll help if you want me, but it's your scene."Drummond opened his door just as Stanning and his myrmidons werepassing it.
　　"Hullo, Stanning," he said.
　　Stanning turned. The punitive expedition stopped.
　　"Do you want anything?" inquired Drummond politely.
　　The members of the senior day-room who were with Stanning rallied round,silent and interested. This dramatic situation appealed to them. Theyhad a passion for rows, and this looked distinctly promising.
　　There was a pause. Stanning looked carefully at Drummond. Drummondlooked carefully at Stanning.
　　"I was going to see Sheen," said Stanning at length.
　　"He isn't in.""Oh!"Another pause.
　　"Was it anything special?" inquired Drummond pleasantly.
　　The expedition edged a little forward.
　　"No. Oh, no. Nothing special," said Stanning.
　　The expedition looked disappointed.
　　"Any message I can give him?" asked Drummond.
　　"No, thanks," said Stanning.
　　"Sure?""Quite, thanks.""I don't think it's worth while your waiting. He may not be in for sometime.""No, perhaps not. Thanks. So long.""So long."Stanning turned on his heel, and walked away down the passage. Drummondwent back into his study, and shut the door.
　　The expedition, deprived of its commander-in-chief, paused irresolutelyoutside. Then it followed its leader's example.
　　There was peace in the passage.
Chapter 15 The Rout At Ripton
On the Saturday following this episode, the first fifteen travelled toRipton to play the return match with that school on its own ground. Ofthe two Ripton matches, the one played at Wrykyn was always the bigevent of the football year; but the other came next in importance, andthe telegram which was despatched to the school shop at the close ofthe game was always awaited with anxiety. This year Wrykyn lookedforward to the return match with a certain amount of apathy, due partlyto the fact that the school was in a slack, unpatriotic state, andpartly to the hammering the team had received in the previous term,when the Ripton centre three-quarters had run through and scored withmonotonous regularity. "We're bound to get sat on," was the generalverdict of the school.
　　Allardyce, while thoroughly agreeing with this opinion, did his best toconceal the fact from the rest of the team. He had certainly done hisduty by them. Every day for the past fortnight the forwards andoutsides had turned out to run and pass, and on the Saturdays there hadbeen matches with Corpus, Oxford, and the Cambridge Old Wrykinians. Inboth games the school had been beaten. In fact, it seemed as if theycould only perform really well when they had no opponents. To see thethree-quarters racing down the field (at practice) and scoringinnumerable (imaginary) tries, one was apt to be misled intoconsidering them a fine quartette. But when there was a match, all thebeautiful dash and precision of the passing faded away, and the lastthing they did was to run straight. Barry was the only one of the fourwho played the game properly.
　　But, as regarded condition, there was nothing wrong with the team. EvenTrevor could not have made them train harder; and Allardyce in his moresanguine moments had a shadowy hope that the Ripton score might, withcare, be kept in the teens.
　　Barry had bought a _Sportsman_ at the station, and he unfolded itas the train began to move. Searching the left-hand column of the middlepage, as we all do when we buy the _Sportsman_ on Saturday--tosee how our names look in print, and what sort of a team the enemy hasgot--he made a remarkable discovery. At the same moment Drummond, onthe other side of the carriage, did the same.
　　"I say," he said, "they must have had a big clear-out at Ripton. Haveyou seen the team they've got out today?""I was just looking at it," said Barry.
　　"What's up with it?" inquired Allardyce. "Let's have a look.""They've only got about half their proper team. They've got a differentback--Grey isn't playing.""Both their centres are, though," said Drummond.
　　"More fun for us, Drum., old chap," said Attell. "I'm going home again.
　　Stop the train."Drummond said nothing. He hated Attell most when he tried to befacetious.
　　"Dunn isn't playing, nor is Waite," said Barry, "so they haven't goteither of their proper halves. I say, we might have a chance of doingsomething today.""Of course we shall," said Allardyce. "You've only got to buck up andwe've got them on toast."The atmosphere in the carriage became charged with optimism. It seemeda simple thing to defeat a side which was practically a Ripton "A"team. The centre three-quarters were there still, it was true, butAllardyce and Drummond ought to be able to prevent the halves evergetting the ball out to them. The team looked on those two unknownhalves as timid novices, who would lose their heads at the kick-off. Asa matter of fact, the system of football teaching at Ripton was soperfect, and the keenness so great, that the second fifteen was nearlyas good as the first every year. But the Wrykyn team did not know this,with the exception of Allardyce, who kept his knowledge to himself; andthey arrived at Ripton jaunty and confident.
　　Keith, the Ripton captain, who was one of the centre three-quarters whohad made so many holes in the Wrykyn defence in the previous term, metthe team at the station, and walked up to the school with them,carrying Allardyce's bag.
　　"You seem to have lost a good many men at Christmas," said Allardyce.
　　"We were reading the _Sportsman_ in the train. Apparently, you'veonly got ten of your last term's lot. Have they all left?"The Ripton captain grinned ruefully.
　　"Not much," he replied. "They're all here. All except Dunn. Youremember Dunn? Little thick-set chap who played half. He always had hishair quite tidy and parted exactly in the middle all through the game.""Oh, yes, I remember Dunn. What's he doing now?""Gone to Coopers Hill. Rot, his not going to the Varsity. He'd havewalked into his blue."Allardyce agreed. He had marked Dunn in the match of the previous term,and that immaculate sportsman had made things not a little warm forhim.
　　"Where are all the others, then?" he asked. "Where's that other half ofyours? And the rest of the forwards?""Mumps," said Keith.
　　"What!""It's a fact. Rot, isn't it? We've had a regular bout of it. Twentyfellows got it altogether. Naturally, four of those were in the team.
　　That's the way things happen. I only wonder the whole scrum didn't haveit.""What beastly luck," said Allardyce. "We had measles like that a coupleof years ago in the summer term, and had to play the Incogs and Zingariwith a sort of second eleven. We got mopped.""That's what we shall get this afternoon, I'm afraid," said Keith.
　　"Oh, no," said Allardyce. "Of course you won't."And, as events turned out, that was one of the truest remarks he hadever made in his life.
　　* * * * *One of the drawbacks to playing Ripton on its own ground was the crowd.
　　Another was the fact that one generally got beaten. But your sportsmancan put up with defeat. What he does not like is a crowd that regardshim as a subtle blend of incompetent idiot and malicious scoundrel, andsays so very loud and clear. It was not, of course, the school that didthis. They spent their time blushing for the shouters. It was thepatriotic inhabitants of Ripton town who made the school wish that theycould be saved from their friends. The football ground at Ripton was atthe edge of the school fields, separated from the road by narrow ironrailings; and along these railings the choicest spirits of the townwould line up, and smoke and yell, and spit and yell again. AsWordsworth wrote, "There are two voices". They were on something likethe following lines.
　　Inside the railings: "Sch-oo-oo-oo-oo-l! Buck up Sch-oo-oo-oo-oo-l!!
　　Get it OUT, Schoo-oo-oo-oo-l!!!"Outside the railings: "Gow it, Ripton! That's the way, Ripton! Twisthis good-old-English-adjectived neck, Ripton! Sit on his forciblydescribed head, Ripton! Gow it, Ripton! Haw, Haw, Haw! They ain't nouse, RIPton! Kick 'im in the eye, RipTON! Haw, Haw, Haw!"The bursts of merriment signalised the violent downfall of somedangerous opponent.
　　The school loathed these humble supporters, and occasionally fastidiousjuniors would go the length of throwing chunks of mud at them throughthe railings. But nothing discouraged them or abated their ferviddesire to see the school win. Every year they seemed to increase inzeal, and they were always in great form at the Wrykyn match.
　　It would be charitable to ascribe to this reason the gruesomehappenings of that afternoon. They needed some explaining away.
　　* * * * *Allardyce won the toss, and chose to start downhill, with the wind inhis favour. It is always best to get these advantages at the beginningof the game. If one starts against the wind, it usually changes ends athalf-time. Amidst a roar from both touch-lines and a volley of howlsfrom the road, a Ripton forward kicked off. The ball flew in thedirection of Stanning, on the right wing. A storm of laughter arosefrom the road as he dropped it. The first scrum was formed on theWrykyn twenty-five line.
　　The Ripton forwards got the ball, and heeled with their usual neatness.
　　The Ripton half who was taking the scrum gathered it cleanly, andpassed to his colleague. He was a sturdy youth with a dark, ratherforbidding face, in which the acute observer might have read signs ofthe savage. He was of the breed which is vaguely described at publicschools as "nigger", a term covering every variety of shade from ebonyto light lemon. As a matter of fact he was a half-caste, sent home toEngland to be educated. Drummond recognised him as he dived forward totackle him. The last place where they had met had been the roped ringat Aldershot. It was his opponent in the final of the Feathers.
　　He reached him as he swerved, and they fell together. The ball boundedforward.
　　"Hullo, Peteiro," he said. "Thought you'd left."The other grinned recognition.
　　"Hullo, Drummond.""Going up to Aldershot this year?""Yes. Light-Weight.""So am I."The scrum had formed by now, and further conversation was impossible.
　　Drummond looked a little thoughtful as he put the ball in. He had beentold that Peteiro was leaving Ripton at Christmas. It was a nuisancehis being still at school. Drummond was not afraid of him--he wouldhave fought a champion of the world if the school had expected himto--but he could not help remembering that it was only by the verynarrowest margin, and after a terrific three rounds, that he had beatenhim in the Feathers the year before. It would be too awful for words ifthe decision were to be reversed in the coming competition.
　　But he was not allowed much leisure for pondering on the future. Thepresent was too full of incident and excitement. The withdrawal of thefour invalids and the departure of Dunn had not reduced the Ripton teamto that wreck of its former self which the Wrykyn fifteen had lookedfor. On the contrary, their play seemed, if anything, a shade betterthan it had been in the former match. There was all the oldaggressiveness, and Peteiro and his partner, so far from being timidnovices and losing their heads, eclipsed the exhibition given at Wrykynby Waite and Dunn. Play had only been in progress six minutes whenKeith, taking a pass on the twenty-five line, slipped past Attell, ranround the back, and scored between the posts. Three minutes later theother Ripton centre scored. At the end of twenty minutes the Wrykynline had been crossed five times, and each of the tries had beenconverted.
　　"_Can't_ you fellows get that ball in the scrum?" demandedAllardyce plaintively, as the team began for the fifth time the oldfamiliar walk to the half-way line. "Pack tight, and get the firstshove."The result of this address was to increase the Ripton lead by fourpoints. In his anxiety to get the ball, one of the Wrykyn forwardsstarted heeling before it was in, and the referee promptly gave a freekick to Ripton for "foot up". As this event took place within easyreach of the Wrykyn goal, and immediately in front of the same, Keithhad no difficulty in bringing off the penalty.
　　By half-time the crowd in the road, hoarse with laughter, had exhaustedall their adjectives and were repeating themselves. The Ripton scorewas six goals, a penalty goal, and two tries to nil, and the Wrykynteam was a demoralised rabble.
　　The fact that the rate of scoring slackened somewhat after the intervalmay be attributed to the disinclination of the Riptonians to exertthemselves unduly. They ceased playing in the stern and scientificspirit in which they had started; and, instead of adhering to anorthodox game, began to enjoy themselves. The forwards no longer heeledlike a machine. They broke through ambitiously, and tried to score ontheir own account. When the outsides got as far as the back, they didnot pass. They tried to drop goals. In this way only twenty-two pointswere scored after half-time. Allardyce and Drummond battled on nobly,but with their pack hopelessly outclassed it was impossible for them todo anything of material use. Barry, on the wing, tackled his manwhenever the latter got the ball, but, as a rule, the centres did notpass, but attacked by themselves. At last, by way of a fittingconclusion to the rout, the Ripton back, catching a high punt, raninstead of kicking, and, to the huge delight of the town contingent,scored. With this incident the visiting team drained the last dregs ofthe bitter cup. Humiliation could go no further. Almost immediatelyafterwards the referee blew his whistle for "No side".
　　"Three cheers for Wrykyn," said Keith.
　　To the fifteen victims it sounded ironical.
Chapter 16 Drummond Goes Into Retirement
The return journey of a school team after a crushing defeat in aforeign match is never a very exhilarating business. Those members ofthe side who have not yet received their colours are wondering which ofthem is to be sacrificed to popular indignation and "chucked": therest, who have managed to get their caps, are feeling that even nowtwo-thirds of the school will be saying that they are not worth a placein the third fifteen; while the captain, brooding apart, is becomingsoured at the thought that Posterity will forget what little good hemay have done, and remember only that it was in his year that theschool got so many points taken off them by So-and-So. Conversationdoes not ripple and sparkle during these home-comings. The Wrykyn teammade the journey in almost unbroken silence. They were all stiff andsore, and their feelings were such as to unfit them for talking topeople.
　　The school took the thing very philosophically--a bad sign. When aschool is in a healthy, normal condition, it should be stirred up by abad defeat by another school, like a disturbed wasps' nest. Wrykyn madeone or two remarks about people who could not play footer for toffee,and then let the thing drop.
　　Sheen was too busy with his work and his boxing to have much leisurefor mourning over this latest example of the present inefficiency ofthe school. The examination for the Gotford was to come off in twodays, and the inter-house boxing was fixed for the following Wednesday.
　　In five days, therefore, he would get his chance of retrieving his lostplace in the school. He was certain that he could, at any rate make avery good show against anyone in the school, even Drummond. Joe Bevanwas delighted with his progress, and quoted Shakespeare volubly in hisadmiration. Jack Bruce and Francis added their tribute, and the knifeand boot boy paid him the neatest compliment of all by refusingpoint-blank to have any more dealings with him whatsoever. Hisprofessional duties, explained the knife and boot boy, did not includebeing punched in the heye by blokes, and he did not intend to be putupon.
　　"You'll do all right," said Jack Bruce, as they were motoring home, "ifthey'll let you go in for it all. But how do you know they will? Havethey chosen the men yet?""Not yet. They don't do it till the day before. But there won't be anydifficulty about that. Drummond will let me have a shot if he thinksI'm good enough.""Oh, you're good enough," said Bruce.
　　And when, on Monday evening, Francis, on receipt of no fewer than fourblows in a single round--a record, shook him by the hand and said thatif ever he happened to want a leetle darg that was a perfect bag oftricks and had got a pedigree, mind you, he, Francis, would be proud tosupply that animal, Sheen felt that the moment had come to approachDrummond on the subject of the house boxing. It would be a littleawkward at first, and conversation would probably run somewhat stiffly;but all would be well once he had explained himself.
　　But things had been happening in his absence which complicated thesituation. Allardyce was having tea with Drummond, who had beenstopping in with a sore throat. He had come principally to makearrangements for the match between his house and Seymour's in thesemi-final round of the competition.
　　"You're looking bad," he said, taking a seat.
　　"I'm feeling bad," said Drummond. For the past few days he had beenvery much out of sorts. He put it down to a chill caught after theRipton match. He had never mustered up sufficient courage to spongehimself with cold water after soaking in a hot bath, and heoccasionally suffered for it.
　　"What's up?" inquired Allardyce.
　　"Oh, I don't know. Sort of beastly feeling. Sore throat. Nothing much.
　　Only it makes you feel rather rotten."Allardyce looked interested.
　　"I say," he said, "it looks as if--I wonder. I hope you haven't.""What?""Mumps. It sounds jolly like it.""Mumps! Of course I've not. Why should I?"Allardyce produced a letter from his pocket. "I got this from Keith,the Ripton captain, this morning. You know they've had a lot of thething there. Oh, didn't you? That was why they had such a bad teamout.""Bad team!" murmured Drummond.
　　"Well, I mean not their best team. They had four of their men down withmumps. Here's what Keith says. Listen. Bit about hoping we got back allright, and so on, first. Then he says--here it is, 'Another of ourfellows has got the mumps. One of the forwards; rather a long man whowas good out of touch. He developed it a couple of days after thematch. It's lucky that all our card games are over. We beat John's,Oxford, last Wednesday, and that finished the card. But it'll ratherrot up the House matches. We should have walked the cup, but there's noknowing what will happen now. I hope none of your lot caught the mumpsfrom Browning during the game. It's quite likely, of course. Browningought not to have been playing, but I had no notion that there wasanything wrong with him. He never said he felt bad.' You've got it,Drummond. That's what's the matter with you.""Oh, rot," said Drummond. "It's only a chill."But the school doctor, who had looked in at the house to dose a smallSeymourite who had indulged too heartily in the pleasures of the table,had other views, and before lockup Drummond was hurried off to theinfirmary.
　　Sheen went to Drummond's study after preparation had begun, and wassurprised to find him out. Not being on speaking terms with a singlemember of the house, he was always out-of-date as regarded items ofschool news. As a rule he had to wait until Jack Bruce told him beforelearning of any occurrence of interest. He had no notion that mumps wasthe cause of Drummond's absence, and he sat and waited patiently forhim in his study till the bell rang for prayers. The only possibleexplanation that occurred to him was that Drummond was in somebodyelse's study, and he could not put his theory to the test by going andlooking. It was only when Drummond did not put in an appearance atprayers that Sheen began to suspect that something might have happened.
　　It was maddening not to be able to make inquiries. He had almostdecided to go and ask Linton, and risk whatever might be theconsequences of such a step, when he remembered that the matron mustknow. He went to her, and was told that Drummond was in the infirmary.
　　He could not help seeing that this made his position a great deal moredifficult. In ten minutes he could have explained matters to Drummondif he had found him in his study. But it would be a more difficult taskto put the thing clearly in a letter.
　　Meanwhile, it was bed-time, and he soon found his hands too full withhis dormitory to enable him to think out the phrasing of that letter.
　　The dormitory, which was recruited entirely from the junior day-room,had heard of Drummond's departure with rejoicings. They liked Drummond,but he was a good deal too fond of the iron hand for their tastes. Anight with Sheen in charge should prove a welcome change.
　　A deafening uproar was going on when Sheen arrived, and as he came intothe room somebody turned the gas out. He found some matches on the chestof drawers, and lit it again just in time to see a sportive youth tearingthe clothes off his bed and piling them on the floor. A month before hewould not have known how to grapple with such a situation, but hisevenings with Joe Bevan had given him the habit of making up his mindand acting rapidly. Drummond was wont to keep a swagger-stick by hisbedside for the better observance of law and order. Sheen possessedhimself of this swagger-stick, and reasoned with the sportive youth.
　　The rest of the dormitory looked on in interested silence. It was acritical moment, and on his handling of it depended Sheen's victory ordefeat. If he did not keep his head he was lost. A dormitory ismerciless to a prefect whose weakness they have discovered.
　　Sheen kept his head. In a quiet, pleasant voice, fingering theswagger-stick, as he spoke, in an absent manner, he requested his youngfriend to re-make the bed--rapidly and completely. For the space offive minutes no sound broke the silence except the rustle of sheets andblankets. At the end of that period the bed looked as good as new.
　　"Thanks," said Sheen gratefully. "That's very kind of you."He turned to the rest of the dormitory.
　　"Don't let me detain you," he said politely. "Get into bed as soon asyou like."The dormitory got into bed sooner than they liked. For some reason thecolossal rag they had planned had fizzled out. They were thoughtful asthey crept between the sheets. Could these things be?
　　* * * * *After much deliberation Sheen sent his letter to Drummond on thefollowing day. It was not a long letter, but it was carefully worded.
　　It explained that he had taken up boxing of late, and ended with arequest that he might be allowed to act as Drummond's understudy in theHouse competitions.
　　It was late that evening when the infirmary attendant came over withthe answer.
　　Like the original letter, the answer was brief.
　　"Dear Sheen," wrote Drummond, "thanks for the offer. I am afraid Ican't accept it. We must have the best man. Linton is going to box forthe House in the Light-Weights."
Chapter 17 Seymour's One Success
This polite epistle, it may be mentioned, was a revised version of theone which Drummond originally wrote in reply to Sheen's request. Hisfirst impulse had been to answer in the four brief words, "Don't be afool"; for Sheen's letter had struck him as nothing more than acontemptible piece of posing, and he had all the hatred for poses whichis a characteristic of the plain and straightforward type of mind. Itseemed to him that Sheen, as he expressed it to himself, was trying to"do the boy hero". In the school library, which had been stocked duringthe dark ages, when that type of story was popular, there were numerousschool stories in which the hero retrieved a rocky reputation bythrashing the bully, displaying in the encounter an intuitive butoverwhelming skill with his fists. Drummond could not help feeling thatSheen must have been reading one of these stories. It was all very fineand noble of him to want to show that he was No Coward After All, likeLeo Cholmondeley or whatever his beastly name was, in _The Lads ofSt. Ethelberta's_ or some such piffling book; but, thought Drummondin his cold, practical way, what about the house? If Sheen thought thatSeymour's was going to chuck away all chance of winning one of theinter-house events, simply in order to give him an opportunity of doingthe Young Hero, the sooner he got rid of that sort of idea, the better.
　　If he wanted to do the Leo Cholmondeley business, let him go and chucka kid into the river, and jump in and save him. But he wasn't going tohave the house let in for twenty Sheens.
　　Such were the meditations of Drummond when the infirmary attendantbrought Sheen's letter to him; and he seized pencil and paper andwrote, "Don't be a fool". But pity succeeded contempt, and he tore upthe writing. After all, however much he had deserved it, the man hadhad a bad time. It was no use jumping on him. And at one time they hadbeen pals. Might as well do the thing politely.
　　All of which reflections would have been prevented had Sheen thought ofmentioning the simple fact that it was Joe Bevan who had given him thelessons to which he referred in his letter. But he had decided not todo so, wishing to avoid long explanations. And there was, he felt, achance that the letter might come into other hands than those ofDrummond. So he had preserved silence on that point, thereby wreckinghis entire scheme.
　　It struck him that he might go to Linton, explain his position, and askhim to withdraw in his favour, but there were difficulties in the wayof that course. There is a great deal of red tape about the athleticarrangements of a house at a public school. When once an order has goneforth, it is difficult to get it repealed. Linton had been chosen torepresent the house in the Light-Weights, and he would carry outorders. Only illness would prevent him appearing in the ring.
　　Sheen made up his mind not to try to take his place, and went throughthe days a victim to gloom, which was caused by other things besideshis disappointment respecting the boxing competition. The Gotfordexamination was over now, and he was not satisfied with hisperformance. Though he did not know it, his dissatisfaction was dueprincipally to the fact that, owing to his isolation, he had beenunable to compare notes after the examinations with the others. Doingan examination without comparing notes subsequently with one's rivals,is like playing golf against a bogey. The imaginary rival against whomone pits oneself never makes a mistake. Our own "howlers" stand out inall their horrid nakedness; but we do not realise that our rivals haveprobably made others far worse. In this way Sheen plumbed the depths ofdepression. The Gotford was a purely Classical examination, with theexception of one paper, a General Knowledge paper; and it was in thisthat Sheen fancied he had failed so miserably. His Greek and Latinverse were always good; his prose, he felt, was not altogether beyondthe pale; but in the General Knowledge paper he had come down heavily.
　　As a matter of fact, if he had only known, the paper was anexceptionally hard one, and there was not a single candidate for thescholarship who felt satisfied with his treatment of it. It was toquestions ten, eleven, and thirteen of this paper that Cardew, of theSchool House, who had entered for the scholarship for the sole reasonthat competitors got excused two clear days of ordinary school-work,wrote the following answer:
　　See "Encylopaedia Britannica," _Times_ edition.
　　If they really wanted to know, he said subsequently, that was theauthority to go to. He himself would probably misinform themaltogether.
　　In addition to the Gotford and the House Boxing, the House Fives nowcame on, and the authorities of Seymour's were in no small perplexity.
　　They met together in Rigby's study to discuss the matter. Theirdifficulty was this. There was only one inmate of Seymour's who had achance of carrying off the House Fives Cup. And that was Sheen. Thehouse was asking itself what was to be done about it.
　　"You see," said Rigby, "you can look at it in two ways, whichever youlike. We ought certainly to send in our best man for the pot, whateversort of chap he is. But then, come to think of it, Sheen can't verywell be said to belong to the house at all. When a man's been cut deadduring the whole term, he can't be looked on as one of the house verywell. See what I mean?""Of course he can't," said Mill, who was second in command atSeymour's. Mill's attitude towards his fellow men was one of incessanthostility. He seemed to bear a grudge against the entire race.
　　Rigby resumed. He was a pacific person, and hated anything resemblingrows in the house. He had been sorry for Sheen, and would have beenglad to give him a chance of setting himself on his legs again.
　　"You see." he said, "this is what I mean. We either recognise Sheen'sexistence or we don't. Follow? We can't get him to win this Cup for us,and then, when he has done it, go on cutting him and treating him as ifhe didn't belong to the house at all. I know he let the house downawfully badly in that business, but still, if he lifts the Fives Cup,that'll square the thing. If he does anything to give the house aleg-up, he must be treated as if he'd never let it down at all.""Of course," said Barry. "I vote we send him in for the Fives.""What rot!" said Mill. "It isn't as if none of the rest of us playedfives.""We aren't as good as Sheen," said Barry.
　　"I don't care. I call it rot letting a chap like him represent thehouse at anything. If he were the best fives-player in the world Iwouldn't let him play for the house."Rigby was impressed by his vehemence. He hesitated.
　　"After all, Barry," he said, "I don't know. Perhaps it might--you see,he did--well, I really think we'd better have somebody else. The househas got its knife into Sheen too much just at present to want him as arepresentative. There'd only be sickness, don't you think? Who else isthere?"So it came about that Menzies was chosen to uphold the house in theFives Courts. Sheen was not surprised. But it was not pleasant. He wascertainly having bad luck in his attempts to do something for thehouse. Perhaps if he won the Gotford they might show a littleenthusiasm. The Gotford always caused a good deal of interest in theschool. It was the best thing of its kind in existence at Wrykyn, andeven the most abandoned loafers liked to feel that their house had wonit. It was just possible, thought Sheen, that a brilliant win mightchange the feelings of Seymour's towards him. He did not care for theapplause of the multitude more than a boy should, but he preferred itvery decidedly to the cut direct.
　　Things went badly for Seymour's. Never in the history of the house, or,at any rate, in the comparatively recent history of the house, hadthere been such a slump in athletic trophies. To begin with, they weresoundly beaten in the semi-final for the House football cup byAllardyce's lot. With Drummond away, there was none to mark the captainof the School team at half, and Allardyce had raced through in a mannerthat must have compensated him to a certain extent for the poor time hehad had in first fifteen matches. The game had ended in a Seymouritedefeat by nineteen points to five.
　　Nor had the Boxing left the house in a better position. Linton foughtpluckily in the Light-Weights, but went down before Stanning, afterbeating a representative of Templar's. Mill did not show up well in theHeavy-Weights, and was defeated in his first bout. Seymour's werereduced to telling themselves how different it all would have been ifDrummond had been there.
　　Sheen watched the Light-Weight contests, and nearly danced withirritation. He felt that he could have eaten Stanning. The man wasquick with his left, but he couldn't _box_. He hadn't a notion ofside-stepping, and the upper-cut appeared to be entirely outside hisrange. He would like to see him tackle Francis.
　　Sheen thought bitterly of Drummond. Why on earth couldn't he have givenhim a chance. It was maddening.
　　The Fives carried on the story. Menzies was swamped by a Day's man. Hemight just as well have stayed away altogether. The star of Seymour'swas very low on the horizon.
　　And then the house scored its one success. The headmaster announced itin the Hall after prayers in his dry, unemotional way.
　　"I have received the list of marks," he said, "from the examiners forthe Gotford Scholarship." He paused. Sheen felt a sudden calm triumphflood over him. Somehow, intuitively, he knew that he had won. Hewaited without excitement for the next words.
　　"Out of a possible thousand marks, Sheen, who wins the scholarship,obtained seven hundred and one, Stanning six hundred and four,Wilson...."Sheen walked out of the Hall in the unique position of a Gotford winnerwith only one friend to congratulate him. Jack Bruce was the one. Theother six hundred and thirty-three members of the school made nodemonstration.
　　There was a pleasant custom at Seymour's of applauding at tea anySeymourite who had won distinction, and so shed a reflected glory onthe house. The head of the house would observe, "Well played,So-and-So!" and the rest of the house would express their emotion inthe way that seemed best to them, to the subsequent exultation of thelocal crockery merchant, who had generally to supply at least a dozenfresh cups and plates to the house after one of these occasions. Whenit was for getting his first eleven or first fifteen cap that the luckyman was being cheered, the total of breakages sometimes ran into thetwenties.
　　Rigby, good, easy man, was a little doubtful as to what course topursue in the circumstances. Should he give the signal? After all, thefellow _had_ won the Gotford. It was a score for the house, andthey wanted all the scores they could get in these lean years. Perhaps,then, he had better.
　　"Well played, Sheen," said he.
　　There was a dead silence. A giggle from the fags' table showed that thecomedy of the situation was not lost on the young mind.
　　The head of the house looked troubled. This was awfully awkward.
　　"Well played, Sheen," he said again.
　　"Don't mention it, Rigby," said the winner of the Gotford politely,looking up from his plate.
Chapter 18 Mr Bevan Makes A Suggestion
When one has been working hard with a single end in view, the arrivaland departure of the supreme moment is apt to leave a feeling ofemptiness, as if life had been drained of all its interest, and leftnothing sufficiently exciting to make it worth doing. Horatius, as hefollowed his plough on a warm day over the corn land which hisgratified country bestowed on him for his masterly handling of thetraffic on the bridge, must sometimes have felt it was a little tame.
　　The feeling is far more acute when one has been unexpectedly baulked inone's desire for action. Sheen, for the first few days after hereceived Drummond's brief note, felt that it was useless for him to tryto do anything. The Fates were against him. In stories, as Mr Ansteyhas pointed out, the hero is never long without his chance ofretrieving his reputation. A mad bull comes into the school grounds,and he alone (the hero, not the bull) is calm. Or there is a fire, andwhose is that pale and gesticulating form at the upper window? Thebully's, of course. And who is that climbing nimbly up the Virginiacreeper? Why, the hero. Who else? Three hearty cheers for the pluckyhero.
　　But in real life opportunities of distinguishing oneself are lessfrequent.
　　Sheen continued his visits to the "Blue Boar", but more because heshrank from telling Joe Bevan that all his trouble had been fornothing, than because he had any definite object in view. It was bitterto listen to the eulogies of the pugilist, when all the while he knewthat, as far as any immediate results were concerned, it did not reallymatter whether he boxed well or feebly. Some day, perhaps, as Mr Bevanwas fond of pointing out when he approached the subject ofdisadvantages of boxing, he might meet a hooligan when he was crossinga field with his sister; but he found that but small consolation. Hewas in the position of one who wants a small sum of ready money, and istold that, in a few years, he may come into a fortune. By the time hegot a chance of proving himself a man with his hands, he would be anOld Wrykinian. He was leaving at the end of the summer term.
　　Jack Bruce was sympathetic, and talked more freely than was his wont.
　　"I can't understand it," he said. "Drummond always seemed a good sort.
　　I should have thought he would have sent you in for the house like ashot. Are you sure you put it plainly in your letter? What did yousay?"Sheen repeated the main points of his letter.
　　"Did you tell him who had been teaching you?""No. I just said I'd been boxing lately.""Pity," said Jack Bruce. "If you'd mentioned that it was Joe who'd beentraining you, he would probably have been much more for it. You see, hecouldn't know whether you were any good or not from your letter. But ifyou'd told him that Joe Bevan and Hunt both thought you good, he'd haveseen there was something in it.""It never occurred to me. Like a fool, I was counting on the thing somuch that it didn't strike me there would be any real difficulty ingetting him to see my point. Especially when he got mumps and couldn'tgo in himself. Well, it can't be helped now."And the conversation turned to the prospects of Jack Bruce's father inthe forthcoming election, the polling for which had just begun.
　　"I'm busy now," said Bruce. "I'm not sure that I shall be able to domuch sparring with you for a bit.""My dear chap, don't let me--""Oh, it's all right, really. Taking you to the 'Blue Boar' doesn't landme out of my way at all. Most of the work lies round in this direction.
　　I call at cottages, and lug oldest inhabitants to the poll. It's raresport.""Does your pater know?""Oh, yes. He rots me about it like anything, but, all the same, Ibelieve he's really rather bucked because I've roped in quite a dozenvoters who wouldn't have stirred a yard if I hadn't turned up. That'swhere we're scoring. Pedder hasn't got a car yet, and these old rottersround here aren't going to move out of their chairs to go for a ride inan ordinary cart. But they chuck away their crutches and hop into amotor like one o'clock.""It must be rather a rag," said Sheen.
　　The car drew up at the door of the "Blue Boar". Sheen got out and ranupstairs to the gymnasium. Joe Bevan was sparring a round with Francis.
　　He watched them while he changed, but without the enthusiasm of whichhe had been conscious on previous occasions. The solid cleverness ofJoe Bevan, and the quickness and cunning of the bantam-weight, were asmuch in evidence as before, but somehow the glamour and romance whichhad surrounded them were gone. He no longer watched eagerly to pick upthe slightest hint from these experts. He felt no more interest than hewould have felt in watching a game of lawn tennis. He _had_ beenkeen. Since his disappointment with regard to the House Boxing he hadbecome indifferent.
　　Joe Bevan noticed this before he had been boxing with him a minute.
　　"Hullo, sir," he said, "what's this? Tired today? Not feeling well? Youaren't boxing like yourself, not at all you aren't. There's no weightbehind 'em. You're tapping. What's the matter with your feet, too? Youaren't getting about as quickly as I should like to see. What have youbeen doing to yourself?""Nothing that I know of," said Sheen. "I'm sorry I'm so rotten. Let'shave another try."The second try proved as unsatisfactory as the first. He was listless,and his leads and counters lacked conviction.
　　Joe Bevan, who identified himself with his pupils with thatthoroughness which is the hall-mark of the first-class boxinginstructor, looked so pained at his sudden loss of form, that Sheencould not resist the temptation to confide in him. After all, he musttell him some time.
　　"The fact is," he said, as they sat on the balcony overlooking theriver, waiting for Jack Bruce to return with his car, "I've had a bitof a sickener.""I thought you'd got sick of it," said Mr Bevan. "Well, have a bit of arest.""I don't mean that I'm tired of boxing," Sheen hastened to explain.
　　"After all the trouble you've taken with me, it would be a bit thick ifI chucked it just as I was beginning to get on. It isn't that. But youknow how keen I was on boxing for the house?"Joe Bevan nodded.
　　"Did you get beat?""They wouldn't let me go in," said Sheen.
　　"But, bless me! you'd have made babies of them. What was the instructordoing? Couldn't he see that you were good?""I didn't get a chance of showing what I could do." He explained thedifficulties of the situation.
　　Mr Bevan nodded his head thoughtfully.
　　"So naturally," concluded Sheen, "the thing has put me out a bit. It'sbeastly having nothing to work for. I'm at a loose end. Up till now,I've always had the thought of the House Competition to keep me going.
　　But now--well, you see how it is. It's like running to catch a train,and then finding suddenly that you've got plenty of time. There doesn'tseem any point in going on running.""Why not Aldershot, sir? said Mr Bevan.
　　"What!" cried Sheen.
　　The absolute novelty of the idea, and the gorgeous possibilities of it,made him tingle from head to foot. Aldershot! Why hadn't he thought ofit before! The House Competition suddenly lost its importance in hiseyes. It was a trivial affair, after all, compared with Aldershot, thatMecca of the public-school boxer.
　　Then the glow began to fade. Doubts crept in. He might have learned agood deal from Joe Bevan, but had he learned enough to be able to holdhis own with the best boxers of all the public schools in the country?
　　And if he had the skill to win, had he the heart? Joe Bevan had saidthat he would not disgrace himself again, and he felt that the chanceswere against his doing so, but there was the terrible possibility. Hehad stood up to Francis and the others, and he had taken their blowswithout flinching; but in these encounters there was always at the backof his mind the comforting feeling that there was a limit to the amountof punishment he would receive. If Francis happened to drive him into acorner where he could neither attack, nor defend himself againstattack, he did not use his advantage to the full. He indicated ratherthan used it. A couple of blows, and he moved out into the open again.
　　But in the Public Schools Competition at Aldershot there would be noquarter. There would be nothing but deadly earnest. If he allowedhimself to be manoeuvred into an awkward position, only his own skill,or the call of time, could extricate him from it.
　　In a word, at the "Blue Boar" he sparred. At Aldershot he would have tofight. Was he capable of fighting?
　　Then there was another difficulty. How was he to get himself appointedas the Wrykyn light-weight representative? Now that Drummond was unableto box, Stanning would go down, as the winner of the SchoolCompetition. These things were worked by an automatic process. Sheenfelt that he could beat Stanning, but he had no means of publishingthis fact to the school. He could not challenge him to a trial ofskill. That sort of thing was not done.
　　He explained this to Joe Bevan.
　　"Well, it's a pity," said Joe regretfully. "It's a pity."At this moment Jack Bruce appeared.
　　"What's a pity, Joe?" he asked.
　　"Joe wants me to go to Aldershot as a light-weight," explained Sheen,"and I was just saying that I couldn't, because of Stanning.""What about Stanning?""He won the School Competition, you see, so they're bound to send himdown.""Half a minute," said Jack Bruce. "I never thought of Aldershot for youbefore. It's a jolly good idea. I believe you'd have a chance. And it'sall right about Stanning. He's not going down. Haven't you heard?""I don't hear anything. Why isn't he going down?""He's knocked up one of his wrists. So he says.""How do you mean--so he says?" asked Sheen.
　　"I believe he funks it.""Why? What makes you think that?""Oh, I don't know. It's only my opinion. Still, it's a little queer.
　　Stanning says he crocked his left wrist in the final of the HouseCompetition.""Well, what's wrong with that? Why shouldn't he have done so?"Sheen objected strongly to Stanning, but he had the elements of justicein him, and he was not going to condemn him on insufficient evidence,particularly of a crime of which he himself had been guilty.
　　"Of course he may have done," said Bruce. "But it's a bit fishy that heshould have been playing fives all right two days running just afterthe competition.""He might have crocked himself then.""Then why didn't he say so?"A question which Sheen found himself unable to answer.
　　"Then there's nothing to prevent you fighting, sir," said Joe Bevan,who had been listening attentively to the conversation.
　　"Do you really think I've got a chance?""I do, sir.""Of course you have," said Jack Bruce. "You're quite as good asDrummond was, last time I saw him box.""Then I'll have a shot at it," said Sheen.
　　"Good for you, sir," cried Joe Bevan.
　　"Though it'll be a bit of a job getting leave," said Sheen. "How wouldyou start about it, Bruce?""You'd better ask Spence. He's the man to go to.""That's all right. I'm rather a pal of Spence's.""Ask him tonight after prep.," suggested Bruce.
　　"And then you can come here regular," said Joe Bevan, "and we'll trainyou till you're that fit you could eat bricks, and you'll make babiesof them up at Aldershot."
Chapter 19 Paving The Way
Bruce had been perfectly correct in his suspicions. Stanning's wristwas no more sprained than his ankle. The advisability of manufacturingan injury had come home to him very vividly on the Saturday morningfollowing the Ripton match, when he had read the brief report of thatpainful episode in that week's number of the _Field_ in the schoollibrary. In the list of the Ripton team appeared the name R. Peteiro.
　　He had heard a great deal about the dusky Riptonian when Drummond hadbeaten him in the Feather-Weights the year before. Drummond hadreturned from Aldershot on that occasion cheerful, but in an extremelybattered condition. His appearance as he limped about the field onSports Day had been heroic, and, in addition, a fine advertisement forthe punishing powers of the Ripton champion. It is true that at leastone of his injuries had been the work of a Pauline whom he had met inthe opening bout; but the great majority were presents from Ripton, andDrummond had described the dusky one, in no uncertain terms, as a holyterror.
　　These things had sunk into Stanning's mind. It had been generallyunderstood at Wrykyn that Peteiro had left school at Christmas. WhenStanning, through his study of the _Field_, discovered that theredoubtable boxer had been one of the team against which he had playedat Ripton, and realised that, owing to Drummond's illness, it wouldfall to him, if he won the House Competition, to meet this man of wrathat Aldershot, he resolved on the instant that the most persuasive ofwild horses should not draw him to that military centre on the day ofthe Public Schools Competition. The difficulty was that he particularlywished to win the House Cup. Then it occurred to him that he couldcombine the two things--win the competition and get injured while doingso.
　　Accordingly, two days after the House Boxing he was observed to issuefrom Appleby's with his left arm slung in a first fifteen scarf. He wastoo astute to injure his right wrist. What happens to one's left wristat school is one's own private business. When one injures one's rightarm, and so incapacitates oneself for form work, the authorities beginto make awkward investigations.
　　Mr Spence, who looked after the school's efforts to win medals atAldershot, was the most disappointed person in the place. He was anenthusiastic boxer--he had represented Cambridge in the Middle-Weightsin his day--and with no small trouble had succeeded in making boxing agoing concern at Wrykyn. Years of failure had ended, the Easter before,in a huge triumph, when O'Hara, of Dexter's and Drummond had won silvermedals, and Moriarty, of Dexter's, a bronze. If only somebody could wina medal this year, the tradition would be established, and would notsoon die out. Unfortunately, there was not a great deal of boxingtalent in the school just now. The rule that the winner at his weightin the House Competitions should represent the school at Aldershot onlyapplied if the winner were fairly proficient. Mr Spence exercised hisdiscretion. It was no use sending down novices to be massacred. Thisyear Drummond and Stanning were the only Wrykinians up to Aldershotform. Drummond would have been almost a certainty for a silver medal,and Stanning would probably have been a runner-up. And here they were,both injured; Wrykyn would not have a single representative at theQueen's Avenue Gymnasium. It would be a set-back to the cult of boxingat the school.
　　Mr Spence was pondering over this unfortunate state of things whenSheen was shown in.
　　"Can I speak to you for a minute, sir?" said Sheen.
　　"Certainly, Sheen. Take one of those cig--I mean, sit down. What isit?"Sheen had decided how to open the interview before knocking at thedoor. He came to the point at once.
　　"Do you think I could go down to Aldershot, sir?" he asked.
　　Mr Spence looked surprised.
　　"Go down? You mean--? Do you want to watch the competition? Really, Idon't know if the headmaster--""I mean, can I box?"Mr Spence's look of surprise became more marked.
　　"Box?" he said. "But surely--I didn't know you were a boxer, Sheen.""I've only taken it up lately.""But you didn't enter for the House Competitions, did you? What weightare you?""Just under ten stone.""A light-weight. Why, Linton boxed for your house in the Light-Weightssurely?""Yes sir. They wouldn't let me go in.""You hurt yourself?""No, sir.""Then why wouldn't they let you go in?""Drummond thought Linton was better. He didn't know I boxed.""But--this is very curious. I don't understand it at all. You see, ifyou were not up to House form, you would hardly--At Aldershot, you see,you would meet the best boxers of all the public schools.""Yes, sir."There was a pause.
　　"It was like this, sir," said Sheen nervously. "At the beginning of theterm there was a bit of a row down in the town, and I got mixed up init. And I didn't--I was afraid to join in. I funked it."Mr Spence nodded. He was deeply interested now. The office of confessoris always interesting.
　　"Go on, Sheen. What happened then?""I was cut by everybody. The fellows thought I had let the house down,and it got about, and the other houses scored off them, so I had rathera rotten time."Here it occurred to him that he was telling his story without thatattention to polite phraseology which a master expects from a boy, sohe amended the last sentence.
　　"I didn't have a very pleasant time, sir," was his correction.
　　"Well?" said Mr Spence.
　　"So I was a bit sick," continued Sheen, relapsing once more into thevernacular, "and I wanted to do something to put things right again,and I met--anyhow, I took up boxing. I wanted to box for the house, ifI was good enough. I practised every day, and stuck to it, and after abit I did become pretty good.""Well?""Then Drummond got mumps, and I wrote to him asking if I mightrepresent the house instead of him, and I suppose he didn't believe Iwas any good. At any rate, he wouldn't let me go in. Then Joe--a manwho knows something about boxing--suggested I should go down toAldershot.""Joe?" said Mr Spence inquiringly.
　　Sheen had let the name slip out unintentionally, but it was too latenow to recall it.
　　"Joe Bevan, sir," he said. "He used to be champion of England,light-weight.""Joe Bevan!" cried Mr Spence. "Really? Why, he trained me when I boxedfor Cambridge. He's one of the best of fellows. I've never seen any onewho took such trouble with his man. I wish we could get him here. So itwas Joe who suggested that you should go down to Aldershot? Well, heought to know. Did he say you would have a good chance?""Yes, sir.""My position is this, you see, Sheen. There is nothing I should likemore than to see the school represented at Aldershot. But I cannot letanyone go down, irrespective of his abilities. Aldershot is not child'splay. And in the Light-Weights you get the hardest fighting of all. Itwouldn't do for me to let you go down if you are not up to the properform. You would be half killed.""I should like to have a shot, sir," said Sheen.
　　"Then this year, as you probably know, Ripton are sending down Peteirofor the Light-Weights. He was the fellow whom Drummond only just beatlast year. And you saw the state in which Drummond came back. IfDrummond could hardly hold him, what would you do?""I believe I could beat Drummond, sir," said Sheen.
　　Mr Spence's eyes opened wider. Here were brave words. This youthevidently meant business. The thing puzzled him. On the one hand, Sheenhad been cut by his house for cowardice. On the other, Joe Bevan, whoof all men was best able to judge, had told him that he was good enoughto box at Aldershot.
　　"Let me think it over, Sheen," he said. "This is a matter which Icannot decide in a moment. I will tell you tomorrow what I think aboutit.""I hope you will let me go down, sir," said Sheen. "It's my onechance.""Yes, yes, I see that, I see that," said Mr Spence, "but all thesame--well, I will think it over."All the rest of that evening he pondered over the matter, deeplyperplexed. It would be nothing less than cruel to let Sheen enter thering at Aldershot if he were incompetent. Boxing in the Public SchoolsBoxing Competition is not a pastime for the incompetent. But he wishedvery much that Wrykyn should be represented, and also he sympathisedwith Sheen's eagerness to wipe out the stain on his honour, and thehonour of the house. But, like Drummond, he could not help harbouring asuspicion that this was a pose. He felt that Sheen was intoxicated byhis imagination. Every one likes to picture himself doing dashingthings in the limelight, with an appreciative multitude to applaud.
　　Would this mood stand the test of action?
　　Against this there was the evidence of Joe Bevan. Joe had said thatSheen was worthy to fight for his school, and Joe knew.
　　Mr Spence went to bed still in a state of doubt.
　　Next morning he hit upon a solution of the difficulty. Wandering in thegrounds before school, he came upon O'Hara, who, as has been statedbefore, had won the Light-Weights at Aldershot in the previous year. Hehad come to Wrykyn for the Sports. Here was the man to help him. O'Harashould put on the gloves with Sheen and report.
　　"I'm in rather a difficulty, O'Hara," he said, "and you can help me.""What's that?" inquired O'Hara.
　　"You know both our light-weights are on the sick list? I had justresigned myself to going down to Aldershot without any one to box, whena boy in Seymour's volunteered for the vacant place. I don't know ifyou knew him at school? Sheen. Do you remember him?""Sheen?" cried O'Hara in amazement. "Not _Sheen_!"...
　　His recollections of Sheen were not conducive to a picture of him as apublic-school boxer.
　　"Yes. I had never heard of him as a boxer. Still, he seems very anxiousto go down, and he certainly has one remarkable testimonial, and asthere's no one else--""And what shall I do?" asked O'Hara.
　　"I want you, if you will, to give him a trial in the dinner-hour. Justsee if he's any good at all. If he isn't, of course, don't hit himabout a great deal. But if he shows signs of being a useful man, extendhim. See what he can do.""Very well, sir," said O'Hara.
　　"And you might look in at my house at tea-time, if you have nothingbetter to do, and tell me what you think of him."At five o'clock, when he entered Mr Spence's study, O'Hara's face worethe awe-struck look of one who had seen visions.
　　"Well?" said Mr Spence. "Did you find him any good?""Good?" said O'Hara. "He'll beat them all. He's a champion. There'sno stopping him.""What an extraordinary thing!" said Mr Spence.
Chapter 20 Sheen Goes To Aldershot
At Sheen's request Mr Spence made no announcement of the fact thatWrykyn would be represented in the Light-Weights. It would be timeenough, Sheen felt, for the School to know that he was a boxer when hehad been down and shown what he could do. His appearance in his newrole would be the most surprising thing that had happened in the placefor years, and it would be a painful anti-climax if, after all theexcitement which would be caused by the discovery that he could use hishands, he were to be defeated in his first bout. Whereas, if hehappened to win, the announcement of his victory would be all the moreimpressive, coming unexpectedly. To himself he did not admit thepossibility of defeat. He had braced himself up for the ordeal, and herefused to acknowledge to himself that he might not come out of itwell. Besides, Joe Bevan continued to express hopeful opinions.
　　"Just you keep your head, sir." he said, "and you'll win. Lots of thesegentlemen, they're champions when they're practising, and you'd thinknothing wouldn't stop them when they get into the ring. But they getwild directly they begin, and forget everything they've been taught,and where are they then? Why, on the floor, waiting for the referee tocount them out."This picture might have encouraged Sheen more if he had not reflectedthat he was just as likely to fall into this error as were hisopponents.
　　"What you want to remember is to keep that guard up. Nothing can beatthat. And push out your left straight. The straight left rules theboxing world. And be earnest about it. Be as friendly as you likeafterwards, but while you're in the ring say to yourself, 'Well, it'syou or me', and don't be too kind.""I wish you could come down to second me, Joe," said Sheen.
　　"I'll have a jolly good try, sir," said Joe Bevan. "Let me see. You'llbe going down the night before--I can't come down then, but I'll tryand manage it by an early train on the day.""How about Francis?""Oh, Francis can look after himself for one day. He's not the sort ofboy to run wild if he's left alone for a few hours.""Then you think you can manage it?""Yes, sir. If I'm not there for your first fight, I shall come in timeto second you in the final.""If I get there," said Sheen.
　　"Good seconding's half the battle. These soldiers they give you atAldershot--well, they don't know the business, as the saying is. Theydon't look after their man, not like I could. I saw youngwhat's-his-name, of Rugby--Stevens: he was beaten in the final by agentleman from Harrow--I saw him fight there a couple of years ago.
　　After the first round he was leading--not by much, but still, he was apoint or two ahead. Well! He went to his corner and his seconds senthim up for the next round in the same state he'd got there in. Theyhadn't done a thing to him. Why, if I'd been in his corner I'd havetaken him and sponged him and sent him up again as fresh as he couldbe. You must have a good second if you're to win. When you're all ontop of your man, I don't say. But you get a young gentleman of your ownclass, just about as quick and strong as you are, and then you'll knowwhere the seconding comes in.""Then, for goodness' sake, don't make any mistake about coming down,"said Sheen.
　　"I'll be there, sir," said Joe Bevan.
　　* * * * *The Queen's Avenue Gymnasium at Aldershot is a roomy place, but it isalways crowded on the Public Schools' Day. Sisters and cousins andaunts of competitors flock there to see Tommy or Bobby perform, underthe impression, it is to be supposed, that he is about to take part ina pleasant frolic, a sort of merry parlour game. What their opinion isafter he emerges from a warm three rounds is not known. Then there aresoldiers in scores. Their views on boxing as a sport are crisp andeasily defined. What they want is Gore. Others of the spectators areOld Boys, come to see how the school can behave in an emergency, and tofind out whether there are still experts like Jones, who won theMiddles in '96 or Robinson, who was runner-up in the Feathers in thesame year; or whether, as they have darkly suspected for some time, theschool has Gone To The Dogs Since They Left.
　　The usual crowd was gathered in the seats round the ring when Sheencame out of the dressing-room and sat down in an obscure corner at theend of the barrier which divides the gymnasium into two parts on theseoccasions. He felt very lonely. Mr Spence and the school instructorwere watching the gymnastics, which had just started upon their lengthycourse. The Wrykyn pair were not expected to figure high on the listthis year. He could have joined Mr Spence, but, at the moment, he feltdisinclined for conversation. If he had been a more enthusiasticcricketer, he would have recognised the feeling as that which attacks abatsman before he goes to the wicket. It is not precisely funk. It israther a desire to accelerate the flight of Time, and get to businessquickly. All things come to him who waits, and among them is thatunpleasant sensation of a cold hand upon the portion of the body whichlies behind the third waistcoat button.
　　The boxing had begun with a bout between two feather-weights, bothobviously suffering from stage-fright. They were fighting in ascrambling and unscientific manner, which bore out Mr Bevan'sstatements on the subject of losing one's head. Sheen felt that bothwere capable of better things. In the second and third rounds thisproved to be the case and the contest came to an end amidst applause.
　　The next pair were light-weights, and Sheen settled himself to watchmore attentively. From these he would gather some indication of what hemight expect to find when he entered the ring. He would not have tofight for some time yet. In the drawing for numbers, which had takenplace in the dressing-room, he had picked a three. There would beanother light-weight battle before he was called upon. His opponent wasa Tonbridgian, who, from the glimpse Sheen caught of him, seemedmuscular. But he (Sheen) had the advantage in reach, and built on that.
　　After opening tamely, the light-weight bout had become vigorous in thesecond round, and both men had apparently forgotten that their rightarms had been given them by Nature for the purpose of guarding. Theywere going at it in hurricane fashion all over the ring. Sheen washorrified to feel symptoms of a return of that old sensation of panicwhich had caused him, on that dark day early in the term, to fleeAlbert and his wicked works. He set his teeth, and fought it down. Andafter a bad minute he was able to argue himself into a proper frame ofmind again. After all, that sort of thing looked much worse than itreally was. Half those blows, which seemed as if they must dotremendous damage, were probably hardly felt by their recipient. Hetold himself that Francis, and even the knife-and-boot boy, hit fullyas hard, or harder, and he had never minded them. At the end of thecontest he was once more looking forward to his entrance to the ringwith proper fortitude.
　　The fighting was going briskly forward now, sometimes good, sometimesmoderate, but always earnest, and he found himself contemplating,without undue excitement, the fact that at the end of the bout whichhad just begun, between middle-weights from St Paul's and Wellington,it would be his turn to perform. As luck would have it, he had not solong to wait as he had expected, for the Pauline, taking the lead afterthe first few exchanges, out-fought his man so completely that thereferee stopped the contest in the second round. Sheen got up from hiscorner and went to the dressing-room. The Tonbridgian was alreadythere. He took off his coat. Somebody crammed his hands into the glovesand from that moment the last trace of nervousness left him. Hetrembled with the excitement of the thing, and hoped sincerely that noone would notice it, and think that he was afraid.
　　Then, amidst a clapping of hands which sounded faint and far-off, hefollowed his opponent to the ring, and ducked under the ropes.
　　The referee consulted a paper which he held, and announced the names.
　　"R. D. Sheen, Wrykyn College."Sheen wriggled his fingers right into the gloves, and thought of JoeBevan. What had Joe said? Keep that guard up. The straight left. Keepthat guard--the straight left. Keep that--"A. W. Bird, Tonbridge School."There was a fresh outburst of applause. The Tonbridgian had shown upwell in the competition of the previous year, and the crowd welcomedhim as an old friend.
　　Keep that guard up--straight left. Straight left--guard up.
　　"Seconds out of the ring."Guard up. Not too high. Straight left. It beats the world. What an agethat man was calling Time. Guard up. Straight--"Time," said the referee.
　　Sheen, filled with a great calm, walked out of his corner and shookhands with his opponent.
Chapter 21 A Good Start
It was all over in half a minute.
　　The Tonbridgian was a two-handed fighter of the rushing type almostimmediately after he had shaken hands. Sheen found himself against theropes, blinking from a heavy hit between the eyes. Through the mist hesaw his opponent sparring up to him, and as he hit he side-stepped. Thenext moment he was out in the middle again, with his man pressing himhard. There was a quick rally, and then Sheen swung his right at aventure. The blow had no conscious aim. It was purely speculative. Butit succeeded. The Tonbridgian fell with a thud.
　　Sheen drew back. The thing seemed pathetic. He had braced himself upfor a long fight, and it had ended in half a minute. His sensationswere mixed. The fighting half of him was praying that his man would getup and start again. The prudent half realised that it was best that heshould stay down. He had other fights before him before he could callthat silver medal his own, and this would give him an invaluable startin the race. His rivals had all had to battle hard in their openingbouts.
　　The Tonbridgian's rigidity had given place to spasmodic efforts torise. He got on one knee, and his gloved hand roamed feebly about insearch of a hold. It was plain that he had shot his bolt. The refereesigned to his seconds, who ducked into the ring and carried him to hiscorner. Sheen walked back to his own corner, and sat down. Presentlythe referee called out his name as the winner, and he went across thering and shook hands with his opponent, who was now himself again.
　　He overheard snatches of conversation as he made his way through thecrowd to the dressing-room.
　　"Useful boxer, that Wrykyn boy.""Shortest fight I've seen here since Hopley won the Heavy-Weights.""Fluke, do you think?""Don't know. Came to the same thing in the end, anyhow. Caught himfair.""Hard luck on that Tonbridge man. He's a good boxer, really. Did wellhere last year."Then an outburst of hand-claps drowned the speakers' voices. A swarthyyouth with the Ripton pink and green on his vest had pushed past himand was entering the ring. As he entered the dressing-room he heard thereferee announcing the names. So that was the famous Peteiro! Sheenadmitted to himself that he looked tough, and hurried into his coat andout of the dressing-room again so as to be in time to see how theRipton terror shaped.
　　It was plainly not a one-sided encounter. Peteiro's opponent hailedfrom St Paul's, a school that has a habit of turning out boxers. At theend of the first round it seemed that honours were even. The greatPeteiro had taken as much as he had given, and once had beenuncompromisingly floored by the Pauline's left. But in the second roundhe began to gain points. For a boy of his weight he had a terrific hitwith the right, and three applications of this to the ribs early in theround took much of the sting out of the Pauline's blows. He fought onwith undiminished pluck, but the Riptonian was too strong for him, andthe third round was a rout. To quote the _Sportsman_ of thefollowing day, "Peteiro crowded in a lot of work with both hands, andscored a popular victory".
　　Sheen looked thoughtful at the conclusion of the fight. There was nodoubt that Drummond's antagonist of the previous year was formidable.
　　Yet Sheen believed himself to be the cleverer of the two. At any rate,Peteiro had given no signs of possessing much cunning. To allappearances he was a tough, go-ahead fighter, with a right which woulddrill a hole in a steel plate. Had he sufficient skill to baffle his(Sheen's) strong tactics? If only Joe Bevan would come! With Joe in hiscorner to direct him, he would feel safe.
　　But of Joe up to the present there were no signs.
　　Mr Spence came and sat down beside him.
　　"Well, Sheen," he said, "so you won your first fight. Keep it up.""I'll try, sir," said Sheen.
　　"What do you think of Peteiro?""I was just wondering, sir. He hits very hard.""Very hard indeed.""But he doesn't look as if he was very clever.""Not a bit. Just a plain slogger. That's all. That's why Drummond beathim last year in the Feather-Weights. In strength there was nocomparison, but Drummond was just too clever for him. You will be thesame, Sheen.""I hope so, sir," said Sheen.
　　* * * * *After lunch the second act of the performance began. Sheen had to meeta boxer from Harrow who had drawn a bye in the first round of thecompetition. This proved a harder fight than his first encounter, butby virtue of a stout heart and a straight left he came through itsuccessfully, and there was no doubt as to what the decision would be.
　　Both judges voted for him.
　　Peteiro demolished a Radleian in his next fight.
　　By the middle of the afternoon there were three light-weights in therunning--Sheen, Peteiro, and a boy from Clifton. Sheen drew the bye,and sparred in an outer room with a soldier, who was inclined to takethe thing easily. Sheen, with the thought of the final in his mind, wasonly too ready to oblige him. They sparred an innocuous three rounds,and the man of war was kind enough to whisper in his ear as they leftthe room that he hoped he would win the final, and that he himself hada matter of one-and-sixpence with Old Spud Smith on his success.
　　"For I'm a man," said the amiable warrior confidentially, "as knowsClass when he sees it. You're Class, sir, that's what you are."This, taken in conjunction with the fact that if the worst came to theworst he had, at any rate, won a medal by having got into the final,cheered Sheen. If only Joe Bevan had appeared he would have beenperfectly contented.
　　But there were no signs of Joe.
Chapter 22 A Good Finish
"Final, Light-Weights," shouted the referee.
　　A murmur of interest from the ring-side chairs.
　　"R. D. Sheen, Wrykyn College."Sheen got his full measure of applause this time. His victories in thepreliminary bouts had won him favour with the spectators.
　　"J. Peteiro, Ripton School.""Go it, Ripton!" cried a voice from near the door. The referee frownedin the direction of this audacious partisan, and expressed a hope thatthe audience would kindly refrain from comment during the rounds.
　　Then he turned to the ring again, and announced the names a secondtime.
　　"Sheen--Peteiro."The Ripton man was sitting with a hand on each knee, listening to theadvice of his school instructor, who had thrust head and shouldersthrough the ropes, and was busy impressing some point upon him. Sheenfound himself noticing the most trivial things with extraordinaryclearness. In the front row of the spectators sat a man with aparti-coloured tie. He wondered idly what tie it was. It was rather likeone worn by members of Templar's house at Wrykyn. Why were the ropes ofthe ring red? He rather liked the colour. There was a man lighting apipe. Would he blow out the match or extinguish it with a wave of thehand? What a beast Peteiro looked. He really was a nigger. He must lookout for that right of his. The straight left. Push it out. Straightleft ruled the boxing world. Where was Joe? He must have missed thetrain. Or perhaps he hadn't been able to get away. Why did he want toyawn, he wondered.
　　"Time!"The Ripton man became suddenly active. He almost ran across the ring. Abrief handshake, and he had penned Sheen up in his corner before he hadtime to leave it. It was evident what advice his instructor had beengiving him. He meant to force the pace from the start.
　　The suddenness of it threw Sheen momentarily off his balance. He seemedto be in a whirl of blows. A sharp shock from behind. He had run upagainst the post. Despite everything, he remembered to keep his guardup, and stopped a lashing hit from his antagonist's left. But he wastoo late to keep out his right. In it came, full on the weakest spot onhis left side. The pain of it caused him to double up for an instant,and as he did so his opponent upper-cut him. There was no rest for him.
　　Nothing that he had ever experienced with the gloves on approachedthis. If only he could get out of this corner.
　　Then, almost unconsciously, he recalled Joe Bevan's advice.
　　"If a man's got you in a corner," Joe had said, "fall on him."Peteiro made another savage swing. Sheen dodged it and hurled himselfforward.
　　"Break away," said a dispassionate official voice.
　　Sheen broke away, but now he was out of the corner with the whole good,open ring to manoeuvre in.
　　He could just see the Ripton instructor signalling violently to hisopponent, and, in reply to the signals, Peteiro came on again withanother fierce rush.
　　But Sheen in the open was a different person from Sheen cooped up in acorner. Francis Hunt had taught him to use his feet. He side-stepped,and, turning quickly, found his man staggering past him, over-balancedby the force of his wasted blow. And now it was Sheen who attacked, andPeteiro who tried to escape. Two swift hits he got in before hisopponent could face round, and another as he turned and rushed. Thenfor a while the battle raged without science all over the ring.
　　Gradually, with a cold feeling of dismay, Sheen realised that hisstrength was going. The pace was too hot. He could not keep it up. Hisleft counters were losing their force. Now he was merely pushing hisglove into the Ripton man's face. It was not enough. The other wasgetting to close quarters, and that right of his seemed stronger thanever.
　　He was against the ropes now, gasping for breath, and Peteiro's rightwas thudding against his ribs. It could not last. He gathered all hisstrength and put it into a straight left. It took the Ripton man in thethroat, and drove him back a step. He came on again. Again Sheenstopped him.
　　It was his last effort. He could do no more. Everything seemed black tohim. He leaned against the ropes and drank in the air in great gulps.
　　"Time!" said the referee.
　　The word was lost in the shouts that rose from the packed seats.
　　Sheen tottered to his corner and sat down.
　　"Keep it up, sir, keep it up," said a voice. "Bear't that the opposedmay beware of thee. Don't forget the guard. And the straight left beatsthe world."It was Joe--at the eleventh hour.
　　With a delicious feeling of content Sheen leaned back in his chair. Itwould be all right now. He felt that the matter had been taken out ofhis hands. A more experienced brain than his would look after thegeneralship of the fight.
　　As the moments of the half-minute's rest slid away he discovered thetruth of Joe's remarks on the value of a good second. In his otherfights the napping of the towel had hardly stirred the hair on hisforehead. Joe's energetic arms set a perfect gale blowing. The cool airrevived him. He opened his mouth and drank it in. A spongeful of coldwater completed the cure. Long before the call of Time he was ready forthe next round.
　　"Keep away from him, sir," said Joe, "and score with that left ofyours. Don't try the right yet. Keep it for guarding. Box clever. Don'tlet him corner you. Slip him when he rushes. Cool and steady does it.
　　Don't aim at his face too much. Go down below. That's the_de_-partment. And use your feet. Get about quick, and you'll findhe don't like that. Hullo, says he, I can't touch him. Then, when he'stired, go in."The pupil nodded with closed eyes.
　　While these words of wisdom were proceeding from the mouth of Mr Bevan,another conversation was taking place which would have interested Sheenif he could have heard it. Mr Spence and the school instructor werewatching the final from the seats under the side windows.
　　"It's extraordinary," said Mr Spence. "The boy's wonderfully good forthe short time he has been learning. You ought to be proud of yourpupil.""Sir?""I was saying that Sheen does you credit.""Not me, sir.""What! He told me he had been taking lessons. Didn't you teach him?""Never set eyes on him, till this moment. Wish I had, sir. He's thesort of pupil I could wish for."Mr Spence bent forward and scanned the features of the man who wasattending the Wrykinian.
　　"Why," he said, "surely that's Bevan--Joe Bevan! I knew him atCambridge.""Yes, sir, that's Bevan," replied the instructor. "He teaches boxing atWrykyn now, sir.""At Wrykyn--where?""Up the river--at the 'Blue Boar', sir," said the instructor, quiteinnocently--for it did not occur to him that this simple little bit ofinformation was just so much incriminating evidence against Sheen.
　　Mr Spence said nothing, but he opened his eyes very wide. Recalling hisrecent conversation with Sheen, he remembered that the boy had told himhe had been taking lessons, and also that Joe Bevan, the ex-pugilist,had expressed a high opinion of his work. Mr Spence had imagined thatBevan had been a chance spectator of the boy's skill; but it would nowseem that Bevan himself had taught Sheen. This matter, decided MrSpence, must be looked into, for it was palpable that Sheen had brokenbounds in order to attend Bevan's boxing-saloon up the river.
　　For the present, however, Mr Spence was content to say nothing.
　　* * * * *Sheen came up for the second round fresh and confident. His head wasclear, and his breath no longer came in gasps. There was to be norallying this time. He had had the worst of the first round, and meantto make up his lost points.
　　Peteiro, losing no time, dashed in. Sheen met him with a left in theface, and gave way a foot. Again Peteiro rushed, and again he wasstopped. As he bored in for the third time Sheen slipped him. TheRipton man paused, and dropped his guard for a moment.
　　Sheen's left shot out once more, and found its mark. Peteiro swung hisright viciously, but without effect. Another swift counter added onemore point to Sheen's score.
　　Sheen nearly chuckled. It was all so beautifully simple. What a fool hehad been to mix it up in the first round. If he only kept his head andstuck to out-fighting he could win with ease. The man couldn't box. Hewas nothing more than a slogger. Here he came, as usual, with the oldfamiliar rush. Out went his left. But it missed its billet. Peteiro hadchecked his rush after the first movement, and now he came in with bothhands. It was the first time during the round that he had got to closequarters, and he made the most of it. Sheen's blows were as frequent,but his were harder. He drove at the body, right and left; and onceagain the call of Time extricated Sheen from an awkward position. Asfar as points were concerned he had had the best of the round, but hewas very sore and bruised. His left side was one dull ache.
　　"Keep away from him, sir," said Joe Bevan. "You were ahead on thatround. Keep away all the time unless he gets tired. But if you see mesignalling, then go in all you can and have a fight."There was a suspicion of weariness about the look of the Riptonchampion as he shook hands for the last round. He was beginning to feelthe effects of his hurricane fighting in the opening rounds. He beganquietly, sparring for an opening. Sheen led with his left. Peteiro wastoo late with his guard. Sheen tried again--a double lead. His opponentguarded the first blow, but the second went home heavily on the body,and he gave way a step.
　　Then from the corner of his eye Sheen saw Bevan gesticulating wildly,so, taking his life in his hands, he abandoned his waiting game,dropped his guard, and dashed in to fight. Peteiro met him doggedly.
　　For a few moments the exchanges were even. Then suddenly theRiptonian's blows began to weaken. He got home his right on the head,and Sheen hardly felt it. And in a flash there came to him the gloriouscertainty that the game was his.
　　He was winning--winning--winning.
　　* * * * *"That's enough," said the referee.
　　The Ripton man was leaning against the ropes, utterly spent, at almostthe same spot where Sheen had leaned at the end of the first round. Thelast attack had finished him. His seconds helped him to his corner.
　　The referee waved his hand.
　　"Sheen wins," he said.
　　And that was the greatest moment of his life.
Chapter 23 A Surprise For Seymour's
Seymour's house took in one copy of the _Sportsman_ daily. On themorning after the Aldershot competition Linton met the paper-boy at thedoor on his return from the fives courts, where he had been playing acouple of before-breakfast games with Dunstable. He relieved him of thehouse copy, and opened it to see how the Wrykyn pair had performed inthe gymnastics. He did not expect anything great, having a rootedcontempt for both experts, who were small and, except in the gymnasium,obscure. Indeed, he had gone so far on the previous day as to express ahope that Biddle, the more despicable of the two, would fall off thehorizontal bar and break his neck. Still he might as well see wherethey had come out. After all, with all their faults, they were humanbeings like himself, and Wrykinians.
　　The competition was reported in the Boxing column. The first thing thatcaught his eye was the name of the school among the headlines.
　　"Honours", said the headline, "for St Paul's, Harrow, and Wrykyn".
　　"Hullo," said Linton, "what's all this?"Then the thing came on him with nothing to soften the shock. He hadfolded the paper, and the last words on the half uppermost were,"_Final. Sheen beat Peteiro_".
　　Linton had often read novels in which some important document "swambefore the eyes" of the hero or the heroine; but he had neverunderstood the full meaning of the phrase until he read those words,"Sheen beat Peteiro".
　　There was no mistake about it. There the thing was. It was impossiblefor the _Sportsman_ to have been hoaxed. No, the incredible,outrageous fact must be faced. Sheen had been down to Aldershot and wona silver medal! Sheen! _Sheen!!_ Sheen who had--who was--well,who, in a word, was SHEEN!!!
　　Linton read on like one in a dream.
　　"The Light-Weights fell," said the writer, "to a newcomer Sheen, ofWrykyn" (Sheen!), "a clever youngster with a strong defence and abeautiful straight left, doubtless the result of tuition from themiddle-weight ex-champion, Joe Bevan, who was in his corner for thefinal bout. None of his opponents gave him much trouble except Peteiroof Ripton, whom he met in the final. A very game and determined fightwas seen when these two met, but Sheen's skill and condition discountedthe rushing tactics of his adversary, and in the last minute of thethird round the referee stopped the encounter." (Game and determined!
　　Sheen!!) "Sympathy was freely expressed for Peteiro, who has thus beenrunner-up two years in succession. He, however, met a better man, andpaid the penalty. The admirable pluck with which Sheen bore hispunishment and gradually wore his man down made his victory the mostpopular of the day's programme."_Well!_Details of the fighting described Sheen as "cutting out the work","popping in several nice lefts", "swinging his right for the point",and executing numerous other incredible manoeuvres.
　　_Sheen!_You caught the name correctly? SHEEN, I'll trouble you.
　　Linton stared blankly across the school grounds. Then he burst into asudden yell of laughter.
　　On that very morning the senior day-room was going to court-martialSheen for disgracing the house. The resolution had been passed on theprevious afternoon, probably just as he was putting the finishingtouches to the "most popular victory of the day's programme". "This,"said Linton, "is rich."He grubbed a little hole in one of Mr Seymour's flower-beds, and laidthe _Sportsman_ to rest in it. The news would be about the schoolat nine o'clock, but if he could keep it from the senior day-room tillthe brief interval between breakfast and school, all would be well, andhe would have the pure pleasure of seeing that backbone of the housemake a complete ass of itself. A thought struck him. He unearthed the_Sportsman_, and put it in his pocket.
　　He strolled into the senior day-room after breakfast.
　　"Any one seen the _Sporter_ this morning?" he inquired.
　　No one had seen it.
　　"The thing hasn't come," said some one.
　　"Good!" said Linton to himself.
　　At this point Stanning strolled into the room. "I'm a witness," hesaid, in answer to Linton's look of inquiry. "We're doing this thing instyle. I depose that I saw the prisoner cutting off on the--whateverday it was, when he ought to have been saving our lives from the furyof the mob. Hadn't somebody better bring the prisoner into the dock?""I'll go," said Linton promptly. "I may be a little time, but don't getworried. I'll bring him all right."He went upstairs to Sheen's study, feeling like an _impresario_about to produce a new play which is sure to create a sensation.
　　Sheen was in. There was a ridge of purple under his left eye, but hewas otherwise intact.
　　"'Gratulate you, Sheen," said Linton.
　　For an instant Sheen hesitated. He had rehearsed this kind of scene inhis mind, and sometimes he saw himself playing a genial, forgiving,let's-say-no-more-about-it-we-all-make-mistakes-but-in-future! role,sometimes being cold haughty, and distant, and repelling friendlyadvances with icy disdain. If anybody but Linton had been the first tocongratulate him he might have decided on this second line of action.
　　But he liked Linton, and wanted to be friendly with him.
　　"Thanks," he said.
　　Linton sat down on the table and burst into a torrent of speech.
　　"You _are_ a man! What did you want to do it for? Where thedickens did you learn to box? And why on earth, if you can win silvermedals at Aldershot, didn't you box for the house and smash up thatsidey ass Stanning? I say, look here, I suppose we haven't been makingidiots of ourselves all the time, have we?""I shouldn't wonder," said Sheen. "How?""I mean, you did--What I mean to say is--Oh, hang it, _you_ know!
　　You did cut off when we had that row in the town, didn't you?""Yes," said Sheen, "I did."With that medal in his pocket it cost him no effort to make theconfession.
　　"I'm glad of that. I mean, I'm glad we haven't been such fools as wemight have been. You see, we only had Stanning's word to go on."Sheen started.
　　"Stanning!" he said. "What do you mean?""He was the chap who started the story. Didn't you know? He toldeverybody.""I thought it was Drummond," said Sheen blankly. "You remember meetingme outside his study the day after? I thought he told you then.""Drummond! Not a bit of it. He swore you hadn't been with him at all.
　　He was as sick as anything when I said I thought I'd seen you withhim.""I--" Sheen stopped. "I wish I'd known," he concluded. Then, after apause, "So it was Stanning!""Yes,--conceited beast. Oh. I say.""Um?""I see it all now. Joe Bevan taught you to box.""Yes.""Then that's how you came to be at the 'Blue Boar' that day. He's theBevan who runs it.""That's his brother. He's got a gymnasium up at the top. I used to gothere every day.""But I say, Great Scott, what are you going to do about that?""How do you mean?""Why, Spence is sure to ask you who taught you to box. He must know youdidn't learn with the instructor. Then it'll all come out, and you'llget dropped on for going up the river and going to the pub.""Perhaps he won't ask," said Sheen.
　　"Hope not. Oh, by the way--""What's up?""Just remembered what I came up for. It's an awful rag. The seniorday-room are going to court-martial you.""Court-martial me!""For funking. They don't know about Aldershot, not a word. I bagged the_Sportsman_ early, and hid it. They are going to get the surpriseof their lifetime. I said I'd come up and fetch you.""I shan't go," said Sheen.
　　Linton looked alarmed.
　　"Oh, but I say, you must. Don't spoil the thing. Can't you see what arag it'll be?""I'm not going to sweat downstairs for the benefit of the seniorday-room.""I say," said Linton, "Stanning's there.""What!""He's a witness," said Linton, grinning.
　　Sheen got up.
　　"Come on," he said.
　　Linton came on.
　　* * * * *Down in the senior day-room the court was patiently awaiting theprisoner. Eager anticipation was stamped on its expressive features.
　　"Beastly time he is," said Clayton. Clayton was acting as president.
　　"We shall have to buck up," said Stanning. "Hullo, here he is at last.
　　Come in, Linton.""I was going to," said Linton, "but thanks all the same. Come along,Sheen.""Shut that door, Linton," said Stanning from his seat on the table.
　　"All right, Stanning," said Linton. "Anything to oblige. Shall I bringup a chair for you to rest your feet on?""Forge ahead, Clayton," said Stanning to the president.
　　The president opened the court-martial in unofficial phraseology.
　　"Look here, Sheen," he said, "we've come to the conclusion that thishas got a bit too thick.""You mustn't talk in that chatty way, Clayton," interrupted Linton.
　　"'Prisoner at the bar's' the right expression to use. Why don't you letsomebody else have a look in? You're the rottenest president of acourt-martial I ever saw.""Don't rag, Linton," said Clayton, with an austere frown. "This isserious.""Glad you told me," said Linton. "Go on.""Can't you sit down, Linton!" said Stanning.
　　"I was only waiting for leave. Thanks. You were saying something,Clayton. It sounded pretty average rot, but you'd better unburden yoursoul."The president resumed.
　　"We want to know if you've anything to say--""You don't give him a chance," said Linton. "You bag the conversationso.""--about disgracing the house.""By getting the Gotford, you know, Sheen," explained Linton. "Claytonthinks that work's a bad habit, and ought to be discouraged."Clayton glared, and looked at Stanning. He was not equal to the task oftackling Linton himself.
　　Stanning interposed.
　　"Don't rot, Linton. We haven't much time as it is.""Sorry," said Linton.
　　"You've let the house down awfully," said Clayton.
　　"Yes?" said Sheen.
　　Linton took the paper out of his pocket, and smoothed it out.
　　"Seen the _Sporter_?" he asked casually. His neighbour grabbed atit.
　　"I thought it hadn't come," he said.
　　"Good account of Aldershot," said Linton.
　　He leaned back in his chair as two or three of the senior day-roomcollected round the _Sportsman_.
　　"Hullo! We won the gym.!""Rot! Let's have a look!"This tremendous announcement quite eclipsed the court-martial as anobject of popular interest. The senior day-room surged round the holderof the paper.
　　"Give us a chance," he protested.
　　"We can't have. Where is it? Biddle and Smith are simply hopeless. Howthe dickens can they have got the shield?""What a goat you are!" said a voice reproachfully to the possessor ofthe paper. "Look at this. It says Cheltenham got it. And here weare--seventeenth. Fat lot of shield we've won.""Then what the deuce does this mean? 'Honours for St Paul's, Harrow,and Wrykyn'.""Perhaps it refers to the boxing," suggested Linton.
　　"But we didn't send any one up. Look here. Harrow won the Heavies. StPaul's got the Middles. _Hullo!_""Great Scott!" said the senior day-room.
　　There was a blank silence. Linton whistled softly to himself.
　　The gaze of the senior day-room was concentrated on that ridge ofpurple beneath Sheen's left eye.
　　Clayton was the first to speak. For some time he had been waiting forsufficient silence to enable him to proceed with his presidentialduties. He addressed himself to Sheen.
　　"Look here, Sheen," he said, "we want to know what you've got to sayfor yourself. You go disgracing the house--"The stunned senior day-room were roused to speech.
　　"Oh, chuck it, Clayton.""Don't be a fool, Clayton.""Silly idiot!"Clayton looked round in pained surprise at this sudden withdrawal ofpopular support.
　　"You'd better be polite to Sheen," said Linton; "he won theLight-Weights at Aldershot yesterday."The silence once more became strained.
　　"Well," said Sheen, "weren't you going to court-martial me, orsomething? Clayton, weren't you saying something?"Clayton started. He had not yet grasped the situation entirely; but herealised dimly that by some miracle Sheen had turned in an instant intoa most formidable person.
　　"Er--no," he said. "No, nothing.""The thing seems to have fallen through, Sheen," said Linton. "Greatpity. Started so well, too. Clayton always makes a mess of things.""Then I'd just like to say one thing," said Sheen.
　　Respectful attention from the senior day-room.
　　"I only want to know why you can't manage things of this sort byyourselves, without dragging in men from other houses.""Especially men like Stanning," said Linton. "The same thing occurredto me. It's lucky Drummond wasn't here. Remember the last time, youchaps?"The chaps did. Stanning became an object of critical interest. Afterall, who _was_ Stanning? What right had he to come and sit ontables in Seymour's and interfere with the affairs of the house?
　　The allusion to "last time" was lost upon Sheen, but he saw that it hadnot improved Stanning's position with the spectators.
　　He opened the door.
　　"Good bye, Stanning," he said.
　　"If I hadn't hurt my wrist--" Stanning began.
　　"Hurt your wrist!" said Sheen. "You got a bad attack of Peteiro. Thatwas what was the matter with you.""You think that every one's a funk like yourself," said Stanning.
　　"Pity they aren't," said Linton; "we should do rather well down atAldershot. And he wasn't such a terror after all, Sheen, was he? Youbeat him in two and a half rounds, didn't you? Think what Stanningmight have done if only he hadn't sprained his poor wrist just in time.
　　"Look here, Linton--""Some are born with sprained wrists," continued the speaker, "someachieve sprained wrists--like Stanning--"Stanning took a step towards him.
　　"Don't forget you've a sprained wrist," said Linton.
　　"Come on, Stanning," said Sheen, who was still holding the door open,"you'll be much more comfortable in your own house. I'll show you out.""I suppose," said Stanning in the passage, "you think you've scored offme.""That," said Sheen pleasantly, "is rather the idea. Good bye."
Chapter 24 Bruce Explains
Mr Spence was a master with a great deal of sympathy and a highlydeveloped sense of duty. It was the combination of these two qualitieswhich made it so difficult for him to determine on a suitable course ofaction in relation to Sheen's out-of-bounds exploits. As a privateindividual he had nothing but admiration for the sporting way in whichSheen had fought his up-hill fight. He felt that he himself in similarcircumstances would have broken any number of school rules. But, as amaster, it was his duty, he considered, to report him. If a masterignored a breach of rules in one case, with which he happened tosympathise, he would in common fairness be compelled to overlook asimilar breach of rules in other cases, even if he did not sympathisewith them. In which event he would be of small use as a master.
　　On the other hand, Sheen's case was so exceptional that he might verywell compromise to a certain extent between the claims of sympathy andthose of duty. If he were to go to the headmaster and state baldly thatSheen had been in the habit for the last half-term of visiting anup-river public-house, the headmaster would get an entirely wrong ideaof the matter, and suspect all sorts of things which had no existencein fact. When a boy is accused of frequenting a public-house, thehead-magisterial mind leaps naturally to Stale Fumes and the DrunkenStagger.
　　So Mr Spence decided on a compromise. He sent for Sheen, and havingcongratulated him warmly on his victory in the Light-Weights, proceededas follows:
　　"You have given me to understand, Sheen, that you were taught boxing byBevan?""Yes, sir.""At the 'Blue Boar'?""Yes, sir.""This puts me in a rather difficult position, Sheen. Much as I dislikedoing it, I am afraid I shall have to report this matter to theheadmaster."Sheen said he supposed so. He saw Mr Spence's point.
　　"But I shall not mention the 'Blue Boar'. If I did, the headmastermight get quite the wrong impression. He would not understand all thecircumstances. So I shall simply mention that you broke bounds by goingup the river. I shall tell him the whole story, you understand, andit's quite possible that you will hear no more of the affair. I'm sureI hope so. But you understand my position?""Yes, sir.""That's all, then, Sheen. Oh, by the way, you wouldn't care for a gameof fives before breakfast tomorrow, I suppose?""I should like it, sir.""Not too stiff?""No, sir.""Very well, then. I'll be there by a quarter-past seven."* * * * *Jack Bruce was waiting to see the headmaster in his study at the end ofafternoon school.
　　"Well, Bruce," said the headmaster, coming into the room and layingdown some books on the table, "do you want to speak to me? Will yougive your father my congratulations on his victory. I shall be writingto him tonight. I see from the paper that the polling was very even.
　　Apparently one or two voters arrived at the last moment and turned thescale.""Yes, sir.""It is a most gratifying result. I am sure that, apart from ourpolitical views, we should all have been disappointed if your fatherhad not won. Please congratulate him sincerely.""Yes, sir.""Well, Bruce, and what was it that you wished to see me about?"Bruce was about to reply when the door opened, and Mr Spence came in.
　　"One moment, Bruce," said the headmaster. "Yes, Spence?"Mr Spence made his report clearly and concisely. Bruce listened withinterest. He thought it hardly playing the game for the gymnasiummaster to hand Sheen over to be executed at the very moment when theschool was shaking hands with itself over the one decent thing that hadbeen done for it in the course of the athletic year; but he toldhimself philosophically that he supposed masters had to do thesethings. Then he noticed with some surprise that Mr Spence was puttingthe matter in a very favourable light for the accused. He was avoidingwith some care any mention of the "Blue Boar". When he had occasion torefer to the scene of Sheen's training, he mentioned it vaguely as ahouse.
　　"This man Bevan, who is an excellent fellow and a personal friend of myown, has a house some way up the river."Of course a public-house _is_ a house.
　　"Up the river," said the headmaster meditatively.
　　It seemed that that was all that was wrong. The prosecution centredround that point, and no other. Jack Bruce, as he listened, saw his wayof coping with the situation.
　　"Thank you, Spence," said the headmaster at the conclusion of thenarrative. "I quite understand that Sheen's conduct was very excusable.
　　But--I distinctly said--I placed the upper river out of bounds....Well,I will see Sheen, and speak to him. I will speak to him."Mr Spence left the room.
　　"Please sir--" said Jack Bruce.
　　"Ah, Bruce. I am afraid I have kept you some little time. Yes?
　　"I couldn't help hearing what Mr Spence was saying to you about Sheen,sir. I don't think he knows quite what really happened.""You mean--?""Sheen went there by road. I used to take him in my motor.""Your--! What did you say, Bruce?""My motor-car, sir. That's to say, my father's. We used to go togetherevery day.""I am glad to hear it. I am glad. Then I need say nothing to Sheenafter all. I am glad....But--er--Bruce," proceeded the headmaster aftera pause.
　　"Yes, sir?""Do you--are you in the habit of driving a motor-car frequently?""Every day, sir. You see, I am going to take up motors when I leaveschool, so it's all education."The headmaster was silent. To him the word "Education" meant Classics.
　　There was a Modern side at Wrykyn, and an Engineering side, and also aScience side; but in his heart he recognised but one Education--theClassics. Nothing that he had heard, nothing that he had read in thepapers and the monthly reviews had brought home to him the spirit ofthe age and the fact that Things were not as they used to be so clearlyas this one remark of Jack Bruce's. For here was Bruce admitting thatin his spare time he drove motors. And, stranger still, that he did itnot as a wild frolic but seriously, with a view to his future career.
　　"The old order changeth," thought the headmaster a little sadly.
　　Then he brought himself back from his mental plunge into the future.
　　"Well, well, Bruce," he said, "we need not discuss the merits anddemerits of driving motor-cars, need we? What did you wish to see meabout?""I came to ask if I might get off morning school tomorrow, sir. Thosevoters who got to the poll just in time and settled the election--Ibrought them down in the car. And the policeman--he's a Radical, andvoted for Pedder--Mr Pedder--has sworn--says I was exceeding thespeed-limit."The headmaster pressed a hand to his forehead, and his mind swam intothe future.
　　"Well, Bruce?" he said at length, in the voice of one whom nothing cansurprise now.
　　"He says I was going twenty-eight miles an hour. And if I can get tothe Court tomorrow morning I can prove that I wasn't. I brought them tothe poll in the little runabout.""And the--er--little runabout," said the headmaster, "does not travelat twenty-eight miles an hour?""No, sir. It can't go more than twenty at the outside.""Very well, Bruce, you need not come to school tomorrow morning.""Thank you, sir."The headmaster stood thinking....The new order....
　　"Bruce," he said.
　　"Yes, sir?""Tell me, do I look very old?"Bruce stared.
　　"Do I look three hundred years old?""No, sir," said Bruce, with the stolid wariness of the boy who fearsthat a master is subtly chaffing him.
　　"I feel more, Bruce," said the headmaster, with a smile. "I feel more.
　　You will remember to congratulate your father for me, won't you?"* * * * *Outside the door Jack Bruce paused in deep reflection. "Rum!" he saidto himself. "Jolly rum!"* * * * *On the senior gravel he met Sheen.
　　"Hullo, Sheen," he said, "what are you going to do?""Drummond wants me to tea with him in the infirmary.""It's all right, then?""Yes. I got a note from him during afternoon school. You coming?""All right. I say, Sheen, the Old Man's rather rum sometimes, isn'the?""What's he been doing now?""Oh--nothing. How do you feel after Aldershot? Tell us all about it.
　　I've not heard a word yet."
 
The End
