Introductory Note
William Harvey, whose epoch-making treatise announcing and demonstrating  the ejaculation of the blood is here printed, was born at Folkestone,  Kent, England, April 1, 1578. He was educated at the King’s School,  Canterbury, and at Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge; and studied  medicine on the Continent, receiving the degree of M.D. from the  University of Padua. He took the same degree later at both the English  universities. After his return to England he became Fellow of the  College of Physicians, physician to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, and  Lumleian lecturer at the College of Physicians. It was in this last  capacity that he delivered, in 1616, the lectures in which he first gave  public notice of his theories on the circulation of the blood. The  notes of these lectures are still preserved in the British Museum.

In 1618 Harvey was appointed physician extraordinary to James I, and he  remained in close professional relations to the royal family until the  close of the Civil War, being present at the battle of Edgehill. By  mandate of Charles I, he was, for a short time, Warden of Merton  College, Oxford (1645-6), and, when he was too infirm to undertake the  duties, he was offered the Presidency of the College of Physicians. He  died on June 3, 1657.

Harvey’s famous “Exercitatio Anatomica de Motu Cordis et Sanguinis in  Animalibus” was published in Latin at Frankfort in 1628. The discovery  was received with great interest, and in his own country was accepted at  once; on the Continent it won favor more slowly. Before his death,  however, the soundness of his views was acknowledged by the medical  profession throughout Europe, and “it remains to this day the greatest  of the discoveries of physiology, and its whole honor belongs to  Harvey.”
Dedication
TO HIS VERY DEAR FRIEND, DOCTOR ARGENT, THE EXCELLENT AND ACCOMPLISHED  PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS, AND TO OTHER LEARNED  PHYSICIANS, HIS MOST ESTEEMED COLLEAGUES.

I have already and repeatedly presented you, my learned friends, with my  new views of the motion and function of the heart, in my anatomical  lectures; but having now for more than nine years confirmed these views  by multiplied demonstrations in your presence, illustrated them by  arguments, and freed them from the objections of the most learned and  skilful anatomists, I at length yield to the requests, I might say  entreaties, of many, and here present them for general consideration in  this treatise.

Were not the work indeed presented through you, my learned friends, I  should scarce hope that it could come out scatheless and complete; for  you have in general been the faithful witnesses of almost all the  instances from which I have either collected the truth or confuted  error. You have seen my dissections, and at my demonstrations of all  that I maintain to be objects of sense, you have been accustomed to  stand by and bear me out with your testimony. And as this book alone  declares the blood to course and revolve by a new route, very different  from the ancient and beaten pathway trodden for so many ages, and  illustrated by such a host of learned and distinguished men, I was  greatly afraid lest I might be charged with presumption did I lay my  work before the public at home, or send it beyond seas for impression,  unless I had first proposed the subject to you, had confirmed its  conclusions by ocular demonstrations in your presence, had replied to  your doubts and objections, and secured the assent and support of our  distinguished President. For I was most intimately persuaded, that if I  could make good my proposition before you and our College, illustrious  by its numerous body of learned individuals, I had less to fear from  others. I even ventured to hope that I should have the comfort of  finding all that you granted me in your sheer love of truth, conceded by  others who were philosophers like yourselves. True philosophers, who  are only eager for truth and knowledge, never regard themselves as  already so thoroughly informed, but that they welcome further  information from whomsoever and from wheresoever it may come; nor are  they so narrow-minded as to imagine any of the arts or sciences  transmitted to us by the ancients, in such a state of forwardness or  completeness, that nothing is left for the ingenuity and industry of  others. On the contrary, very many maintain that all we know is still  infinitely less than all that still remains unknown; nor do philosophers  pin their faith to others’ precepts in such wise that they lose their  liberty, and cease to give credence to the conclusions of their proper  senses. Neither do they swear such fealty to their mistress Antiquity,  that they openly, and in sight of all, deny and desert their friend  Truth. But even as they see that the credulous and vain are disposed at  the first blush to accept and believe everything that is proposed to  them, so do they observe that the dull and unintellectual are indisposed  to see what lies before their eyes, and even deny the light of the  noonday sun. They teach us in our course of philosophy to sedulously  avoid the fables of the poets and the fancies of the vulgar, as the  false conclusions of the sceptics. And then the studious and good and  true, never suffer their minds to be warped by the passions of hatred  and envy, which unfit men duly to weigh the arguments that are advanced  in behalf of truth, or to appreciate the proposition that is even fairly  demonstrated. Neither do they think it unworthy of them to change their  opinion if truth and undoubted demonstration require them to do so.  They do not esteem it discreditable to desert error, though sanctioned  by the highest antiquity, for they know full well that to err, to be  deceived, is human; that many things are discovered by accident and that  many may be learned indifferently from any quarter, by an old man from a  youth, by a person of understanding from one of inferior capacity.

My dear colleagues, I had no purpose to swell this treatise into a large  volume by quoting the names and writings of anatomists, or to make a  parade of the strength of my memory, the extent of my reading, and the  amount of my pains; because I profess both to learn and to teach  anatomy, not from books but from dissections; not from the positions of  philosophers but from the fabric of nature; and then because I do not  think it right or proper to strive to take from the ancients any honor  that is their due, nor yet to dispute with the moderns, and enter into  controversy with those who have excelled in anatomy and been my  teachers. I would not charge with wilful falsehood any one who was  sincerely anxious for truth, nor lay it to any one’s door as a crime  that he had fallen into error. I avow myself the partisan of truth  alone; and I can indeed say that I have used all my endeavours, bestowed  all my pains on an attempt to produce something that should be  agreeable to the good, profitable to the learned, and useful to letters.

Farewell, most worthy Doctors, And think kindly of your Anatomist,

WILLIAM HARVEY.
Introduction
As we are about to discuss the motion, action, and use of the heart and  arteries, it is imperative on us first to state what has been thought of  these things by others in their writings, and what has been held by the  vulgar and by tradition, in order that what is true may be confirmed,  and what is false set right by dissection, multiplied experience, and  accurate observation.

Almost all anatomists, physicians, and philosophers up to the present  time have supposed, with Galen, that the object of the pulse was the  same as that of respiration, and only differed in one particular, this  being conceived to depend on the animal, the respiration on the vital  faculty; the two, in all other respects, whether with reference to  purpose or to motion, comporting themselves alike. Whence it is  affirmed, as by Hieronymus Fabricius of Aquapendente, in his book on  “Respiration,” which has lately appeared, that as the pulsation of the  heart and arteries does not suffice for the ventilation and  refrigeration of the blood, therefore were the lungs fashioned to  surround the heart. From this it appears that whatever has hitherto been  said upon the systole and diastole, or on the motion of the heart and  arteries, has been said with especial reference to the lungs.

But as the structure and movements of the heart differ from those of the  lungs, and the motions of the arteries from those of the chest, so it  seems likely that other ends and offices will thence arise, and that the  pulsations and uses of the heart, likewise of the arteries, will differ  in many respects from the heavings and uses of the chest and lungs. For  did the arterial pulse and the respiration serve the same ends; did the  arteries in their diastole take air into their cavities, as commonly  stated, and in their systole emit fuliginous vapours by the same pores  of the flesh and skin; and further, did they, in the time intermediate  between the diastole and the systole, contain air, and at all times  either air or spirits, or fuliginous vapours, what should then be said  to Galen, who wrote a book on purpose to show that by nature the  arteries contained blood, and nothing but blood, and consequently  neither spirits nor air, as may readily be gathered from the experiments  and reasonings contained in the same book? Now, if the arteries are  filled in the diastole with air then taken into them (a larger quantity  of air penetrating when the pulse is large and full), it must come to  pass that if you plunge into a bath of water or of oil when the pulse is  strong and full, it ought forthwith to become either smaller or much  slower, since the circumambient bath will render it either difficult or  impossible for the air to penetrate. In like manner, as all the  arteries, those that are deep-seated as well as those that are  superficial, are dilated at the same instant and with the same rapidity,  how is it possible that air should penetrate to the deeper parts as  freely and quickly through the skin, flesh, and other structures, as  through the cuticle alone? And how should the arteries of the foetus  draw air into their cavities through the abdomen of the mother and the  body of the womb? And how should seals, whales, dolphins, and other  cetaceans, and fishes of every description, living in the depths of the  sea, take in and emit air by the diastole and systole of their arteries  through the infinite mass of water? For to say that they absorb the air  that is present in the water, and emit their fumes into this medium,  were to utter something like a figment. And if the arteries in their  systole expel fuliginous vapours from their cavities through the pores  of the flesh and skin, why not the spirits, which are said to be  contained in those vessels, at the same time, since spirits are much  more subtile than fuliginous vapours or smoke? And if the arteries take  in and cast out air in the systole and diastole, like the lungs in the  process of respiration, why do they not do the same thing when a wound  is made in one of them, as in the operation of arteriotomy? When the  windpipe is divided, it is sufficiently obvious that the air enters and  returns through the wound by two opposite movements; but when an artery  is divided, it is equally manifest that blood escapes in one continuous  stream, and that no air either enters or issues. If the pulsations of  the arteries fan and refrigerate the several parts of the body as the  lungs do the heart, how comes it, as is commonly said, that the arteries  carry the vital blood into the different parts, abundantly charged with  vital spirits, which cherish the heat of these parts, sustain them when  asleep, and recruit them when exhausted? How should it happen that, if  you tie the arteries, immediately the parts not only become torpid, and  frigid, and look pale, but at length cease even to be nourished? This,  according to Galen, is because they are deprived of the heat which  flowed through all parts from the heart, as its source; whence it would  appear that the arteries rather carry warmth to the parts than serve for  any fanning or refrigeration. Besides, how can their diastole draw  spirits from the heart to warm the body and its parts, and means of  cooling them from without? Still further, although some affirm that the  lungs, arteries, and heart have all the same offices, they yet maintain  that the heart is the workshop of the spirits, and that the arteries  contain and transmit them; denying, however, in opposition to the  opinion of Columbus, that the lungs can either make or contain spirits.  They then assert, with Galen, against Erasistratus, that it is the  blood, not spirits, which is contained in the arteries.

These opinions are seen to be so incongruous and mutually subversive,  that every one of them is justly brought under suspicion. That it is  blood and blood alone which is contained in the arteries is made  manifest by the experiment of Galen, by arteriotomy, and by wounds; for  from a single divided artery, as Galen himself affirms in more than one  place, the whole of the blood may be withdrawn in the course of half an  hour or less. The experiment of Galen alluded to is this: “If you  include a portion of an artery between two ligatures, and slit it open  lengthwise you will find nothing but blood”; and thus he proves that the  arteries contain only blood. And we too may be permitted to proceed by a  like train of reasoning: if we find the same blood in the arteries as  in the veins, after having tied them in the same way, as I have myself  repeatedly ascertained, both in the dead body and in living animals, we  may fairly conclude that the arteries contain the same blood as the  veins, and nothing but the same blood. Some, whilst they attempt to  lessen the difficulty, affirm that the blood is spirituous and  arterious, and virtually concede that the office of the arteries is to  carry blood from the heart into the whole of the body, and that they are  therefore filled with blood; for spirituous blood is not the less blood  on that account. And no one denies the blood as such, even the portion  of it which flows in the veins, is imbued with spirits. But if that  portion of it which is contained in the arteries be richer in spirits,  it is still to be believed that these spirits are inseparable from the  blood, like those in the veins; that the blood and spirits constitute  one body (like whey and butter in milk, or heat in hot water), with  which the arteries are charged, and for the distribution of which from  the heart they are provided. This body is nothing else than blood. But  if this blood be said to be drawn from the heart into the arteries by  the diastole of these vessels, it is then assumed that the arteries by  their distension are filled with blood, and not with the surrounding  air, as heretofore; for if they be said also to become filled with air  from the ambient atmosphere, how and when, I ask, can they receive blood  from the heart? If it be answered: during the systole, I take it to be  impossible: the arteries would then have to fill while they contracted,  to fill, and yet not become distended. But if it be said: during  diastole, they would then, and for two opposite purposes, be receiving  both blood and air, and heat and cold, which is improbable. Further when  it is affirmed that the diastole of the heart and arteries is  simultaneous, and the systole of the two is also concurrent, there is  another incongruity. For how can two bodies mutually connected, which  are simultaneously distended, attract or draw anything from one another?  or being simultaneously contracted, receive anything from each other?  And then it seems impossible that one body can thus attract another body  into itself, so as to become distended, seeing that to be distended is  to be passive, unless, in the manner of a sponge, which has been  previously compressed by an external force, it is returning to its  natural state. But it is difficult to conceive that there can be  anything of this kind in the arteries. The arteries dilate, because they  are filled like bladders or leathern bottles; they are not filled  because they expand like bellows. This I think easy of demonstration,  and indeed conceive that I have already proved it. Nevertheless, in that  book of Galen headed “Quod Sanguis continetur in Arterus,” he quotes an  experiment to prove the contrary. An artery having been exposed, is  opened longitudinally, and a reed or other pervious tube is inserted  into the vessel through the opening, by which the blood is prevented  from being lost, and the wound is closed. “So long,” he says, “as things  are thus arranged, the whole artery will pulsate; but if you now throw a  ligature about the vessel and tightly compress its wall over the tube,  you will no longer see the artery beating beyond the ligature.” I have  never performed this experiment of Galen’s nor do I think that it could  very well be performed in the living body, on account of the profuse  flow of blood that would take place from the vessel that was operated  on; neither would the tube effectually close the wound in the vessel  without a ligature; and I cannot doubt but that the blood would be found  to flow out between the tube and the vessel. Still Galen appears by  this experiment to prove both that the pulsative property extends from  the heart by the walls of the arteries, and that the arteries, whilst  they dilate, are filled by that pulsific force, because they expand like  bellows, and do not dilate as if they are filled like skins, But the  contrary is obvious in arteriotomy and in wounds; for the blood spurting  from the arteries escapes with force, now farther, now not so far,  alternately, or in jets; and the jet always takes place with the  diastole of the artery, never with the systole. By which it clearly  appears that the artery is dilated with the impulse of the blood; for of  itself it would not throw the blood to such a distance and whilst it  was dilating; it ought rather to draw air into its cavity through the  wound, were those things true that are commonly stated concerning the  uses of the arteries. Do not let the thickness of the arterial tunics  impose upon us, and lead us to conclude that the pulsative property  proceeds along them from the heart For in several animals the arteries  do not apparently differ from the veins; and in extreme parts of the  body where the arteries are minutely subdivided, as in the brain, the  hand, etc., no one could distinguish the arteries from the veins by the  dissimilar characters of their coats: the tunics of both are identical.  And then, in the aneurism proceeding from a wounded or eroded artery,  the pulsation is precisely the same as in the other arteries, and yet it  has no proper arterial covering. To this the learned Riolanus testifies  along with me, in his Seventh Book.

Nor let any one imagine that the uses of the pulse and the respiration  are the same, because, under the influences of the same causes, such as  running, anger, the warm bath, or any other heating thing, as Galen  says, they become more frequent and forcible together. For not only is  experience in opposition to this idea, though Galen endeavours to  explain it away, when we see that with excessive repletion the pulse  beats more forcibly, whilst the respiration is diminished in amount;,  but in young persons the pulse is quick, whilst respiration is slow. So  it is also in alarm, and amidst care, and under anxiety of mind;  sometimes, too, in fevers, the pulse is rapid, but the respiration is  slower than usual.

These and other objections of the same kind may be urged against the  opinions mentioned. Nor are the views that are entertained of the  offices and pulse of the heart, perhaps, less bound up with great and  most inextricable difficulties. The heart, it is vulgarly said, is the  fountain and workshop of the vital spirits, the centre from which life  is dispensed to the several parts of the body. Yet it is denied that the  right ventricle makes spirits, which is rather held to supply  nourishment to the lungs. For these reasons it is maintained that fishes  are without any right ventricle (and indeed every animal wants a right  ventricle which is unfurnished with lungs), and that the right ventricle  is present solely for the sake of the lungs.

1. Why, I ask, when we see that the structure of both ventricles is  almost identical, there being the same apparatus of fibres, and braces,  and valves, and vessels, and auricles, and both in the same way in our  dissections are found to be filled up with blood similarly black in  colour, and coagulated — why, I say, should their uses be imagined to be  different, when the action, motion, and pulse of both are the same? If  the three tricuspid valves placed at the entrance into the right  ventricle prove obstacles to the reflux of the blood into the vena cava,  and if the three semilunar valves which are situated at the  commencement of the pulmonary artery be there, that they may prevent the  return of the blood into the ventricle; why, when we find similar  structures in connexion with the left ventricle, should we deny that  they are there for the same end, of preventing here the egress, there  the regurgitation, of the blood?

2. And, when we have these structures, in points of size, form, and  situation, almost in every respect the same in the left as in the right  ventricle, why should it be said that things are arranged in the former  for the egress and regress of spirits, and in the latter or right  ventricle, for the blood? The same arrangement cannot be held fitted to  favour or impede the motion of the blood and of spirits indifferently.

3. And when we observe that the passages and vessels are severally in  relation to one another in point of size, viz., the pulmonary artery to  the pulmonary veins; why should the one be destined to a private  purpose, that of furnishing the lungs, the other to a public function?

4. And as Realdus Columbus says, is it probable that such a quantity of  blood should be required for the nutrition of the lungs; the vessel that  leads to them, the vena arteriosa or pulmonary artery being of greater  capacity than both the iliac veins?

5. And I ask, as the lungs are so close at hand, and in continual  motion, and the vessel that supplies them is of such dimensions, what is  the use or meaning of this pulse of the right ventricle? and why was  nature reduced to the necessity of adding another ventricle for the sole  purpose of nourishing the lungs?

When it is said that the left ventricle draws materials for the  formation of spirits, air and blood, from the lungs and right sinuses of  the heart, and in like manner sends spirituous blood into the aorta,  drawing fuliginous vapours from there, and sending them by the pulmonary  vein into the lungs, whence spirits are at the same time obtained for  transmission into the aorta, I ask how, and by what means is the  separation effected? And how comes it that spirits and fuliginous  vapours can pass hither and thither without admixture or confusion? If  the mitral cuspidate valves do not prevent the egress of fuliginous  vapours to the lungs, how should they oppose the escape of air? And how  should the semiluftars hinder the regress of spirits from the aorta upon  each supervening diastole of the heart? Above all, how can they say  that the spirituous blood is sent from the pulmonary veins by the left  ventricle into the lungs without any obstacle to its passage from the  mitral valves, when they have previously asserted that the air entered  by the same vessel from the lungs into the left ventricle, and have  brought forward these same mitral valves as obstacles to its  retrogression? Good God! how should the mitral valves prevent the  regurgitation of air and not of blood?

Moreover, when they appoint the pulmonary artery, a vessel of great  size, with the coverings of an artery, to none but a kind of private and  single purpose, that, namely, of nourishing the lungs, why should the  pulmonary vein, which is scarcely so large, which has the coats of a  vein, and is soft and lax, be presumed to be made for many — three or  four different — uses? For they will have it that air passes through  this vessel from the lungs into the left ventricle; that fuliginous  vapours escape by it from the heart into the lungs; and that a portion  of the spirituous blood is distributed to the lungs for their  refreshment.

If they will have it that fumes and air — fumes flowing from, air  proceeding towards the heart — are transmitted by the same conduit, I  reply, that nature is not wont to construct but one vessel, to contrive  but one way for such contrary motions and purposes, nor is anything of  the kind seen elsewhere.

If fumes or fuliginous vapours and air permeate this vessel, as they do  the pulmonary bronchia, wherefore do we find neither air nor fuliginous  vapours when we divide the pulmonary vein? Why do we always find this  vessel full of sluggish blood, never of air, whilst in the lungs we find  abundance of air remaining?

If any one will perform Galen’s experiment of dividing the trachea of a  living dog, forcibly distending the lungs with a pair of bellows, and  then tying the trachea securely, he will find, when he has laid open the  thorax, abundance of air in the lungs, even to their extreme investing  tunic, but none in either the pulmonary veins or the left ventricle of  the heart. But did the heart either attract air from the lungs, or did  the lungs transmit any air to the heart, in the living dog, much more  ought this to be the case in the experiment just referred to. Who,  indeed, doubts that, did he inflate the lungs of a subject in the  dissecting — room, he would instantly see the air making its way by this  route, were there actually any such passage for it? But this office of  the pulmonary veins, namely, the ransference of air from the lungs of  the heart, is held of such importance, that Hieronymus Fabricius of  Aquapendente, contends that the lungs were made for the sake of this  vessel, and that it constitutes the principal element in their  structure. But I should like to be informed why, if the pulmonary vein  were destined for the conveyance of air, it has the structure of a blood  — vessel here. Nature had rather need of annular tubes, such as those  of the bronchi in order that they might always remain open, and not be  liable to collapse; and that they might continue entirely free from  blood, lest the liquid should interfere with the passage of the air, as  it so obviously does when the lungs labour from being either greatly  oppressed or loaded in a less degree with phlegm, as they are when the  breathing is performed with a sibilous or rattling noise.

Still less is that opinion to be tolerated which, as a two-fold  material, one aerial, one sanguineous, is required for the composition  of vital spirits, supposes the blood to ooze through the septum of the  heart from the right to the left ventricle by certain hidden porosities,  and the air to be attracted from the lungs through the great vessel,  the pulmonary vein; and which, consequently, will have it, that there  are numerous porosities in the septum of the heart adapted for the  transmission of the blood. But by Hercules! no such pores can be  demonstrated, nor in fact do any such exist. For the septum of the heart  is of a denser and more compact structure than any portion of the body,  except the bones and sinews. But even supposing that there were  foramina or pores in this situation, how could one of the ventricles  extract anything from the other — the left, e.g., obtain blood from the  right, when we see that both ventricles contract and dilate  simultaneously? Why should we not rather believe that the right took  spirits from the left, than that the left obtained blood from the right  ventricle through these foramina? But it is certainly mysterious and  incongruous that blood should be supposed to be most commodiously drawn  through a set of obscure or invisible ducts, and air through perfectly  open passages, at one and the same moment. And why, I ask, is recourse  had to secret and invisible porosities, to uncertain and obscure  channels, to explain the passage of the blood into the left ventricle,  when there is so open a way through the pulmonary veins? I own it has  always appeared extraordinary to me that they should have chosen to  make, or rather to imagine, a way through the thick, hard, dense, and  most compact septum of the heart, rather than take that by the open  pulmonary vein, or even through the lax, soft and spongy substance of  the lungs at large. Besides, if the blood could permeate the substance  of the septum, or could be imbibed from the ventricles, what use were  there for the coronary artery and vain, branches of which proceed to the  septum itself, to supply it with nourishment? And what is especially  worthy of notice is this: if in the foetus, where everything is more lax  and soft, nature saw herself reduced to the necessity of bringing the  blood from the right to the left side of the heart by the foramen ovale,  from the vena cava through the pulmonary vein, how should it be likely  that in the adult she should pass it so commodiously, and without an  effort through the septum of the ventricles which has now become denser  by age?

Andreas Laurentius,1 resting on the authority of Galen2 and the  experience of Hollerius, asserts and proves that the serum and pus in  empyema, absorbed from the cavities of the chest into the pulmonary vein  may be expelled and got rid of with the urine and feces through the  left ventricle of the heart and arteries. He quotes the case of a  certain person affected with melancholia, and who suffered from repeated  fainting fits, who was relieved from the paroxysms on passing a  quantity of turbid, fetid and acrid urine. But he died at last, worn out  by disease; and when the body came to be opened after death, no fluid  like that he had micturated was discovered either in the bladder or the  kidneys; but in the left ventricle of the heart and cavity of the thorax  plenty of it was met with. And then Laurentius boasts that he had  predicted the cause of the symptoms. For my own part, however, I cannot  but wonder, since he had divined and predicted that heterogeneous matter  could be discharged by the course he indicates, why he could not or  would not perceive, and inform us that, in the natural state of things,  the blood might be commodiously transferred from the lungs to the left  ventricle of the heart by the very same route.

Since, therefore, from the foregoing considerations and many others to  the same effect, it is plain that what has heretofore been said  concerning the motion and function of the heart and arteries must appear  obscure, inconsistent, or even impossible to him who carefully  considers the entire subject, it would be proper to look more narrowly  into the matter to contemplate the motion of the heart and arteries, not  only in man, but in all animals that have hearts; and also, by frequent  appeals to vivisection, and much ocular inspection, to investigate and  discern the truth.
Chapter I The Author’s Motives for Writing
When I first gave my mind to vivisections, as a means of discovering the  motions and uses of the heart, and sought to discover these from actual  inspection, and not from the writings of others, I found the task so  truly arduous, so full of difficulties, that I was almost tempted to  think, with Fracastorius, that the motion of the heart was only to be  comprehended by God. For I could neither rightly perceive at first when  the systole and when the diastole took place, nor when and where  dilatation and contraction occurred, by reason of the rapidity of the  motion, which in many animals is accomplished in the twinkling of an  eye, coming and going like a flash of lightning; so that the systole  presented itself to me now from this point, now from that; the diastole  the same; and then everything was reversed, the motions occurring, as it  seemed, variously and confusedly together. My mind was therefore  greatly unsettled nor did I know what I should myself conclude, nor what  believe from others. I was not surprised that Andreas Laurentius should  have written that the motion of the heart was as perplexing as the flux  and reflux of Euripus had appeared to Aristotle.

At length, by using greater and daily diligence and investigation,  making frequent inspection of many and various animals, and collating  numerous observations, I thought that I had attained to the truth, that I  should extricate myself and escape from this labyrinth, and that I had  discovered what I so much desired, both the motion and the use of the  heart and arteries. From that time I have not hesitated to expose my  views upon these subjects, not only in private to my friends, but also  in public, in my anatomical lectures, after the manner of the Academy of  old.

These views as usual, pleased some more, others less; some chid and  calumniated me, and laid it to me as a crime that I had dared to depart  from the precepts and opinions of all anatomists; others desired further  explanations of the novelties, which they said were both worthy of  consideration, and might perchance be found of signal use. At length,  yielding to the requests of my friends, that all might be made  participators in my labors, and partly moved by the envy of others, who,  receiving my views with uncandid minds and understanding them  indifferently, have essayed to traduce me publicly, I have moved to  commit these things to the press, in order that all may be enabled to  form an opinion both of me and my labours. This step I take all the more  willingly, seeing that Hieronymus Fabricius of Aquapendente, although  he has accurately and learnedly delineated almost every one of the  several parts of animals in a special work, has left the heart alone  untouched. Finally, if any use or benefit to this department of the  republic of letters should accrue from my labours, it will, perhaps, be  allowed that I have not lived idly, and as the old man in the comedy  says:

For never yet hath any one attained
To such perfection, but that time, and place,
And use, have brought addition to his knowledge;
Or made correction, or admonished him,
That he was ignorant of much which he
Had thought he knew; or led him to reject
What he had once esteemed of highest price.

So will it, perchance, be found with reference to the heart at this  time; or others, at least, starting hence, with the way pointed out to  them, advancing under the guidance of a happier genius, may make  occasion to proceed more fortunately, and to inquire more accurately.
Chapter II
On the Motions of the Heart as Seen in the Dissection of Living Animals

In the first place, then, when the chest of a living animal is laid open  and the capsule that immediately surrounds the heart is slit up or  removed, the organ is seen now to move, now to be at rest; there is a  time when it moves, and a time when it is motionless.

These things are more obvious in the colder animals, such as toads,  frogs, serpents, small fishes, crabs, shrimps, snails, and shell-fish.  They also become more distinct in warm-blooded animals, such as the dog  and hog, if they be attentively noted when the heart begins to flag, to  move more slowly, and, as it were, to die: the movements then become  slower and rarer, the pauses longer, by which it is made much more easy  to perceive and unravel what the motions really are, and how they are  performed. In the pause, as in death, the heart is soft, flaccid,  exhausted, lying, as it were, at rest.

In the motion, and interval in which this is accomplished, three principal circumstances are to be noted:

1. That the heart is erected, and rises upwards to a point, so that at  this time it strikes against the breast and the pulse is felt  externally.

2. That it is everywhere contracted, but more especially towards the  sides so that it looks narrower, relatively longer, more drawn together.  The heart of an eel taken out of the body of the animal and placed upon  the table or the hand, shows these particulars; but the same things are  manifest in the hearts of all small fishes and of those colder animals  where the organ is more conical or elongated.

3. The heart being grasped in the hand, is felt to become harder during  its action. Now this hardness proceeds from tension, precisely as when  the forearm is grasped, its tendons are perceived to become tense and  resilient when the fingers are moved.

4. It may further be observed in fishes, and the colder blooded animals,  such as frogs, serpents, etc., that the heart, when it moves, becomes  of a paler color, when quiescent of a deeper blood-red color.

From these particulars it appears evident to me that the motion of the  heart consists in a certain universal tension — both contraction in the  line of its fibres, and constriction in every sense. It becomes erect,  hard, and of diminished size during its action; the motion is plainly of  the same nature as that of the muscles when they contract in the line  of their sinews and fibres; for the muscles, when in action, acquire  vigor and tenseness, and from soft become hard, prominent, and  thickened: and in the same manner the heart.

We are therefore authorized to conclude that the heart, at the moment of  its action, is at once constricted on all sides, rendered thicker in  its parietes and smaller in its ventricles, and so made apt to project  or expel its charge of blood. This, indeed, is made sufficiently  manifest by the preceding fourth observation in which we have seen that  the heart, by squeezing out the blood that it contains, becomes paler,  and then when it sinks into repose and the ventricle is filled anew with  blood, that the deeper crimson colour returns. But no one need remain  in doubt of the fact, for if the ventricle be pierced the blood will be  seen to be forcibly projected outwards upon each motion or pulsation  when the heart is tense.

These things, therefore, happen together or at the same instant: the  tension of the heart, the pulse of its apex, which is felt externally by  its striking against the chest, the thickening of its parietes, and the  forcible expulsion of the blood it contains by the constriction of its  ventricles.

Hence the very opposite of the opinions commonly received appears to be  true; inasmuch as it is generally believed that when the heart strikes  the breast and the pulse is felt without, the heart is dilated in its  ventricles and is filled with blood; but the contrary of this is the  fact, and the heart, when it contracts (and the impulse of the apex is  conveyed through the chest wall), is emptied. Whence the motion which is  generally regarded as the diastole of the heart, is in truth its  systole. And in like manner the intrinsic motion of the heart is not the  diastole but the systole; neither is it in the diastole that the heart  grows firm and tense, but in the systole, for then only, when tense, is  it moved and made vigorous.

Neither is it by any means to be allowed that the heart only moves in  the lines of its straight fibres, although the great Vesalius giving  this notion countenance, quotes a bundle of osiers bound in a pyramidal  heap in illustration; meaning, that as the apex is approached to the  base, so are the sides made to bulge out in the fashion of arches, the  cavities to dilate, the ventricles to acquire the form of a  cupping-glass and so to suck in the blood. But the true effect of every  one of its fibres is to constringe the heart at the same time they  render it tense; and this rather with the effect of thickening and  amplifying the walls and substance of the organ than enlarging its  ventricles. And, again, as the fibres run from the apex to the base, and  draw the apex towards the base, they do not tend to make the walls of  the heart bulge out in circles, but rather the contrary; inasmuch as  every fibre that is circularly disposed, tends to become straight when  it contracts; and is distended laterally and thickened, as in the case  of muscular fibres in general, when they contract, that is, when they  are shortened longitudinally, as we see them in the bellies of the  muscles of the body at large. To all this let it be added, that not only  are the ventricles contracted in virtue of the direction and  condensation of their walls, but farther, that those fibres, or bands,  styled nerves by Aristotle, which are so conspicuous in the ventricles  of the larger animals, and contain all the straight fibres (the parietes  of the heart containing only circular ones), when they contract  simultaneously by an admirable adjustment all the internal surfaces are  drawn together as if with cords, and so is the charge of blood expelled  with force.

Neither is it true, as vulgarly believed, that the heart by any  dilatation or motion of its own, has the power of drawing the blood into  the ventricles; for when it acts and becomes tense, the blood is  expelled; when it relaxes and sinks together it receives the blood in  the manner and wise which will by-and-by be explained.
Chapter III
Of the Motions of the Arteries, as Seen in the Dissection of Living Animals

In connexion with the motions of the heart these things are further to  be observed having reference to the motions and pulses of the arteries.

1. At the moment the heart contracts, and when the breast is struck,  when in short the organ is in its state of systole, the arteries are  dilated, yield a pulse, and are in the state of diastole. In like  manner, when the right ventricle contracts and propels its charge of  blood, the pulmonary artery is distended at the same time with the other  arteries of the body.

2. When the left ventricle ceases to act, to contract, to pulsate, the  pulse in the arteries also ceases; further, when this ventricle  contracts languidly, the pulse in the arteries is scarcely perceptible.  In like manner, the pulse in the right ventricle failing, the pulse in  the pulmonary artery ceases also.

3. Further, when an artery is divided or punctured, the blood is seen to  be forcibly propelled from the wound the moment the left ventricle  contracts; and, again, when the pulmonary artery is wounded, the blood  will be seen spouting forth with violence at the instant when the right  ventricle contracts.

So also in fishes, if the vessel which leads from the heart to the gills  be divided, at the moment when the heart becomes tense and contracted,  at the same moment does the blood flow with force from the divided  vessel.

In the same way, when we see the blood in arteriotomy projected now to a  greater, now to a less distance, and that the greater jet corresponds  to the diastole of the artery and to the time when the heart contracts  and strikes the ribs, and is in its state of systole, we understand that  the blood is expelled by the same movement.

From these facts it is manifest, in opposition to commonly received  opinions, that the diastole of the arteries corresponds with the time of  the heart’s systole; and that the arteries are filled and distended by  the blood forced into them by the contraction of the ventricles; the  arteries, therefore, are distended, because they are filled like sacs or  bladders, and are not filled because they expand like bellows. It is in  virtue of one and the same cause, therefore, that all the arteries of  the body pulsate, viz., the contraction of the left ventricle; in the  same way as the pulmonary artery pulsates by the contraction of the  right ventricle.

Finally, that the pulses of the arteries are due to the impulses of the  blood from the left ventricle, may be illustrated by blowing into a  glove, when the whole of the fingers will be found to become distended  at one and the same time, and in their tension to bear some resemblance  to the pulse. For in the ratio of the tension is the pulse of the heart,  fuller, stronger, and more frequent as that acts more vigorously, still  preserving the rhythm and volume, and order of the heart’s  contractions. Nor is it to be expected that because of the motion of the  blood, the time at which the contraction of the heart takes place, and  that at which the pulse in an artery (especially a distant one) is felt,  shall be otherwise than simultaneous: it is here the same as in blowing  up a glove or bladder; for in a plenum (as in a drum, a long piece of  timber, etc.) the stroke and the motion occur at both extremities at the  same time. Aristotle,3 too, has said, “the blood of all animals  palpitates within their veins (meaning the arteries), and by the pulse  is sent everywhere simultaneously.” And further,4 “thus do all the veins  pulsate together and by successive strokes, because they all depend  upon the heart; and, as it is always in motion, so are they likewise  always moving together, but by successive movements.” It is well to  observe with Galen, in this place, that the old philosophers called the  arteries veins. I happened upon one occasion to have a particular case  under my care, which plainly satisfied me of the truth: A certain person  was affected with a large pulsating tumour on the right side of the  neck, called an aneurism, just at that part where the artery descends  into the axilla, produced by an erosion of the artery itself, and daily  increasing in size; this tumour was visibly distended as it received the  charge of blood brought to it by the artery, with each stroke of the  heart; the connexion of parts was obvious when the body of the patient  came to be opened after his death. The pulse in the corresponding arm  was small, in consequence of the greater portion of the blood being  diverted into the tumour and so intercepted.

Whence it appears that whenever the motion of the blood through the  arteries is impeded, whether it be by compression or infarction, or  interception, there do the remote divisions of the arteries beat less  forcibly, seeing that the pulse of the arteries is nothing more than the  impulse or shock of the blood in these vessels.
Chapter IV
Of the Motion of the Heart and its Auricles, as Seen in the Bodies of Living Animals

Besides the motions already spoken of, we have still to consider those that appertain to the auricles.

Caspar Bauhin and John Riolan,5 most learned men and skilful anatomists,  inform us that from their observations, that if we carefully watch the  movements of the heart in the vivisection of an animal, we shall  perceive four motions distinct in time and in place, two of which are  proper to the auricles, two to the ventricles. With all deference to  such authority I say that there are four motions distinct in point of  place, but not of time; for the two auricles move together, and so also  do the two ventricles, in such wise that though the places be four, the  times are only two. And this occurs in the following manner:

There are, as it were, two motions going on together: one of the  auricles, another of the ventricles; these by no means taking place  simultaneously, but the motion of the auricles preceding, that of the  heart following; the motion appearing to begin from the auricles and to  extend to the ventricles. When all things are becoming languid, and the  heart is dying, as also in fishes and the colder blooded animals there  is a short pause between these two motions, so that the heart aroused,  as it were, appears to respond to the motion, now more quickly, now more  tardily; and at length, when near to death, it ceases to respond by its  proper motion, but seems, as it were, to nod the head, and is so  slightly moved that it appears rather to give signs of motion to the  pulsating auricles than actually to move. The heart, therefore, ceases  to pulsate sooner than the auricles, so that the auricles have been said  to outlive it, the left ventricle ceasing to pulsate first of all; then  its auricle, next the right ventricle; and, finally, all the other  parts being at rest and dead, as Galen long since observed, the right  auricle still continues to beat; life, therefore, appears to linger  longest in the right auricle. Whilst the heart is gradually dying, it is  sometimes seen to reply, after two or three contractions of the  auricles, roused as it were to action, and making a single pulsation,  slowly, unwillingly, and with an effort.

But this especially is to be noted, that after the heart has ceased to  beat, the auricles however still contracting, a finger placed upon the  ventricles perceives the several pulsations of the auricles, precisely  in the same way and for the same reason, as we have said, that the  pulses of the ventricles are felt in the arteries, to wit, the  distension produced by the jet of blood. And if at this time, the  auricles alone pulsating, the point of the heart be cut off with a pair  of scissors, you will perceive the blood flowing out upon each  contraction of the auricles. Whence it is manifest that the blood enters  the ventricles, not by any attraction or dilatation of the heart, but  by being thrown into them by the pulses of the auricles.

And here I would observe, that whenever I speak of pulsations as  occurring in the auricles or ventricles, I mean contractions: first the  auricles contract, and then and subsequently the heart itself contracts.  When the auricles contract they are seen to become whiter, especially  where they contain but little blood; but they are filled as magazines or  reservoirs of the blood, which is tending spontaneously and, by its  motion in the veins, under pressure towards the centre; the whiteness  indicated is most conspicuous towards the extremities or edges of the  auricles at the time of their contractions.

In fishes and frogs, and other animals which have hearts with but a  single ventricle, and for an auricle have a kind of bladder much  distended with blood, at the base of the organ, you may very plainly  perceive this bladder contracting first, and the contraction of the  heart or ventricle following afterwards.

But I think it right to describe what I have observed of an opposite  character: the heart of an eel, of several fishes, and even of some (of  the higher) animals taken out of the body, pulsates without auricles;  nay, if it be cut in pieces the several parts may still be seen  contracting and relaxing; so that in these creatures the body of the  heart may be seen pulsating and palpitating, after the cessation of all  motion in the auricle. But is not this perchance peculiar to animals  more tenacious of life, whose radical moisture is more glutinous, or fat  and sluggish, and less readily soluble? The same faculty indeed appears  in the flesh of eels, which even when skinned and embowelled, and cut  into pieces, are still seen to move.

Experimenting with a pigeon upon one occasion, after the heart had  wholly ceased to pulsate, and the auricles too had become motionless, I  kept my finger wetted with saliva and warm for a short time upon the  heart, and observed that under the influence of this fomentation it  recovered new strength and life, so that both ventricles and auricles  pulsated, contracting and relaxing alternately, recalled as it were from  death to life.

Besides this, however, I have occasionally observed, after the heart and  even its right auricle had ceased pulsating — when it was in articulo  mortis in short — that an obscure motion, an undulation or palpitation,  remained in the blood itself, which was contained in the right auricle,  this being apparent so long as it was imbued with heat and spirit. And,  indeed, a circumstance of the same kind is extremely manifest in the  course of the generation of animals, as may be seen in the course of the  first seven days of the incubation of the chick: A drop of blood makes  its appearance which palpitates, as Aristotle had already observed; from  this, when the growth is further advanced and the chick is fashioned,  the auricles of the heart are formed, which pulsating henceforth give  constant signs of life. When at length, and after the lapse of a few  days, the outline of the body begins to be distinguished, then is the  ventricular part of the heart also produced, but it continues for a time  white and apparently bloodless, like the rest of the animal; neither  does it pulsate or give signs of motion. I have seen a similar condition  of the heart in the human foetus about the beginning of the third  month, the heart then being whitish and bloodless, although its auricles  contained a considerable quantity of purple blood. In the same way in  the egg, when the chick was formed and had increased in size, the heart  too increased and acquired ventricles, which then began to receive and  to transmit blood.

And this leads me to remark that he who inquires very particularly into  this matter will not conclude that the heart, as a whole, is the primum  vivens, ultimum moriens — the first part to live, the last to die — but  rather its auricles, or the part which corresponds to the auricles in  serpents, fishes, etc., which both lives before the heart and dies after  it.

Nay, has not the blood itself or spirit an obscure palpitation inherent  in it, which it has even appeared to me to retain after death? and it  seems very questionable whether or not we are to say that life begins  with the palpitation or beating of the heart. The seminal fluid of all  animals — the prolific spirit, as Aristotle observed, leaves their body  with a bound and like a living thing; and nature in death, as Aristotle6  further remarks, retracing her steps, reverts to where she had set out,  and returns at the end of her course to the goal whence she had  started. As animal generation proceeds from that which is not animal,  entity from nonentity, so, by a retrograde course, entity, by  corruption, is resolved into nonentity, whence that in animals, which  was last created, fails first and that which was first, fails last.

I have also observed that almost all animals have truly a heart, not the  larger creatures only, and those that have red blood, but the smaller,  and pale-blooded ones also, such as slugs, snails, scallops, shrimps,  crabs, crayfish, and many others; nay, even in wasps, hornets, and  flies, I have, with the aid of a magnifying glass, and at the upper part  of what is called the tail, both seen the heart pulsating myself, and  shown it to many others.

But in the pale-blooded tribes the heart pulsates sluggishly and  deliberately, contracting slowly as in animals that are moribund, a fact  that may readily be seen in the snail, whose heart will be found at the  bottom of that orifice in the right side of the body which is seen to  be opened and shut in the course of respiration, and whence saliva is  discharged, the incision being made in the upper aspect of the body,  near the part which corresponds to the liver.

This, however, is to be observed: that in winter and the colder season,  exsanguine animals, such as the snail, show no pulsation; they seem  rather to live after the manner of vegetables, or of those other  productions which are therefore designated plant-animals.

It is also to be noted that all animals which have a heart have also  auricles, or something analogous to auricles; and, further, that  whenever the heart has a double ventricle, there are always two auricles  present, but not otherwise. If you turn to the production of the chick  in ovo, however, you will find at first no more a vesicle or auricle, or  pulsating drop of blood; it is only by and by, when the development has  made some progress, that the heart is fashioned; even so in certain  animals not destined to attain to the highest perfection in their  organization, such as bees, wasps, snails, shrimps, crayfish, etc., we  only find a certain pulsating vesicle, like a sort of red or white  palpitating point, as the beginning or principle of their life.

We have a small shrimp in these countries, which is taken in the Thames  and in the sea, the whole of whose body is transparent; this creature,  placed in a little water, has frequently afforded myself and particular  friends an opportunity of observing the motions of the heart with the  greatest distinctness, the external parts of the body presenting no  obstacle to our view, but the heart being perceived as though it had  been seen through a window.

I have also observed the first rudiments of the chick in the course of  the fourth or fifth day of the incubation, in the guise of a little  cloud, the shell having been removed and the egg immersed in clear tepid  water. In the midst of the cloudlet in question there was a bloody  point so small that it disappeared during the contraction and escaped  the sight, but in the relaxation it reappeared again, red and like the  point of a pin; so that betwixt the visible and invisible, betwixt being  and not being, as it were, it gave by its pulses a kind of  representation of the commencement of life.
Chapter V
Of the Motion, Action and Office of the Heart

From these and other observations of a similar nature, I am persuaded it  will be found that the motion of the heart is as follows:

First of all, the auricle contracts, and in the course of its  contraction forces the blood (which it contains in ample quantity as the  head of the veins, the store — house and cistern of the blood) into the  ventricle, which, being filled, the heart raises itself straightway,  makes all its fibres tense, contracts the ventricles, and performs a  beat, by which beat it immediately sends the blood supplied to it by the  auricle into the arteries. The right ventricle sends its charge into  the lungs by the vessel which is called vena arteriosa, but which in  structure and function, and all other respects, is an artery. The left  ventricle sends its charge into the aorta, and through this by the  arteries to the body at large.

These two motions, one of the ventricles, the other of the auricles,  take place consecutively, but in such a manner that there is a kind of  harmony or rhythm preserved between them, the two concurring in such  wise that but one motion is apparent, especially in the warmer blooded  animals, in which the movements in question are rapid. Nor is this for  any other reason than it is in a piece of machinery, in which, though  one wheel gives motion to another, yet all the wheels seem to move  simultaneously; or in that mechanical contrivance which is adapted to  firearms, where, the trigger being touched, down comes the flint,  strikes against the steel, elicits a spark, which falling among the  powder, ignites it, when the flame extends, enters the barrel, causes  the explosion, propels the ball, and the mark is attained — all of which  incidents, by reason of the celerity with which they happen, seem to  take place in the twinkling of an eye. So also in deglutition: by the  elevation of the root of the tongue, and the compression of the mouth,  the food or drink is pushed into the fauces, when the larynx is closed  by its muscles and by the epiglottis. The pharynx is then raised and  opened by its muscles in the same way as a sac that is to be filled is  lifted up and its mouth dilated. Upon the mouthful being received, it is  forced downwards by the transverse muscles, and then carried farther by  the longitudinal ones. Yet all these motions, though executed by  different and distinct organs, are performed harmoniously, and in such  order that they seem to constitute but a single motion and act, which we  call deglutition.

Even so does it come to pass with the motions and action of the heart,  which constitute a kind of deglutition, a transfusion of the blood from  the veins to the arteries. And if anyone, bearing these things in mind,  will carefully watch the motions of the heart in the body of a living  animal, he will perceive not only all the particulars I have mentioned,  viz., the heart becoming erect, and making one continuous motion with  its auricles; but farther, a certain obscure undulation and lateral  inclination in the direction of the axis of the right ventricle, as if  twisting itself slightly in performing its work. And indeed everyone may  see, when a horse drinks, that the water is drawn in and transmitted to  the stomach at each movement of the throat, which movement produces a  sound and yields a pulse both to the ear and the touch; in the same way  it is with each motion of the heart, when there is the delivery of a  quantity of blood from the veins to the arteries a pulse takes place,  and can be heard within the chest.

The motion of the heart, then, is entirely of this description, and the  one action of the heart is the transmission of the blood and its  distribution, by means of the arteries, to the very extremities of the  body; so that the pulse which we feel in the arteries is nothing more  than the impulse of the blood derived from the heart.

Whether or not the heart, besides propelling the blood, giving it motion  locally, and distributing it to the body, adds anything else to it —  heat, spirit, perfection — must be inquired into by — and — by, and  decided upon other grounds. So much may suffice at this time, when it is  shown that by the action of the heart the blood is transfused through  the ventricles from the veins to the arteries, and distributed by them  to all parts of the body.

The above, indeed, is admitted by all, both from the structure of the  heart and the arrangement and action of its valves. But still they are  like persons purblind or groping about in the dark, for they give  utterance to various, contradictory, and incoherent sentiments,  delivering many things upon conjecture, as we have already shown.

The grand cause of doubt and error in this subject appears to me to have  been the intimate connexion between the heart and the lungs. When men  saw both the pulmonary artery and the pulmonary veins losing themselves  in the lungs, of course it became a puzzle to them to know how or by  what means the right ventricle should distribute the blood to the body,  or the left draw it from the venae cavae. This fact is borne witness to  by Galen, whose words, when writing against Erasistratus in regard to  the origin and use of the veins and the coction of the blood, are the  following 7: “You will reply,” he says, “that the effect is so; that the  blood is prepared in the liver, and is thence transferred to the heart  to receive its proper form and last perfection; a statement which does  not appear devoid of reason; for no great and perfect work is ever  accomplished at a single effort, or receives its final polish from one  instrument. But if this be actually so, then show us another vessel  which draws the absolutely perfect blood from the heart, and distributes  it as the arteries do the spirits over the whole body.” Here then is a  reasonable opinion not allowed, because, forsooth, besides not seeing  the true means of transit, he could not discover the vessel which should  transmit the blood from the heart to the body at large!

But had anyone been there in behalf of Erasistratus, and of that opinion  which we now espouse, and which Galen himself acknowledges in other  respects consonant with reason, to have pointed to the aorta as the  vessel which distributes the blood from the heart to the rest of the  body, I wonder what would have been the answer of that most ingenious  and learned man? Had he said that the artery transmits spirits and not  blood, he would indeed sufficiently have answered Erasistratus, who  imagined that the arteries contained nothing but spirits; but then he  would have contradicted himself, and given a foul denial to that for  which he had keenly contended in his writings against this very  Erasistratus, to wit, that blood in substance is contained in the  arteries, and not spirits; a fact which he demonstrated not only by many  powerful arguments, but by experiments.

But if the divine Galen will here allow, as in other places he does,  “that all the arteries of the body arise from the great artery, and that  this takes its origin from the heart; that all these vessels naturally  contain and carry blood; that the three semilunar valves situated at the  orifice of the aorta prevent the return of the blood into the heart,  and that nature never connected them with this, the most noble viscus of  the body, unless for some important end”; if, I say, this father of  physicians concedes all these things — and I quote his own words — I do  not see how he can deny that the great artery is the very vessel to  carry the blood, when it has attained its highest term for term of  perfection, from the heart for distribution to all parts of the body. Or  would he perchance still hesitate, like all who have come after him,  even to the present hour, because he did not perceive the route by which  the blood was transferred from the veins to the arteries, in  consequence, as I have already said, of the intimate connexion between  the heart and the lungs? And that this difficulty puzzled anatomists not  a little, when in their dissections they found the pulmonary artery and  left ventricle full of thick, black, and clotted blood, plainly  appears, when they felt themselves compelled to affirm that the blood  made its way from the right to the left ventricle by transuding through  the septum of the heart. But this fancy I have already refuted. A new  pathway for the blood must therefore be prepared and thrown open, and  being once exposed, no further difficulty will, I believe, be  experienced by anyone in admitting what I have already proposed in  regard to the pulse of the heart and arteries, viz., the passage of the  blood from the veins to the arteries, and its distribution to the whole  of the body by means of these vessels.
Chapter VI
Of the Course by which the Blood is Carried from the Vena Cava into the  Arteries, or from the Right into the Left Ventricle of the Heart

Since the intimate connexion of the heart with the lungs, which is  apparent in the human subject, has been the probable cause of the errors  that have been committed on this point, they plainly do amiss who,  pretending to speak of the parts of animals generally, as anatomists for  the most part do, confine their researches to the human body alone, and  that when it is dead. They obviously do not act otherwise than he who,  having studied the forms of a single commonwealth, should set about the  composition of a general system of polity; or who, having taken  cognizance of the nature of a single field, should imagine that he had  mastered the science of agriculture; or who, upon the ground of one  particular proposition, should proceed to draw general conclusions.

Had anatomists only been as conversant with the dissection of the lower  animals as they are with that of the human body, the matters that have  hitherto kept them in a perplexity of doubt would, in my opinion, have  met them freed from every kind of difficulty.

And first, in fishes, in which the heart consists of but a single  ventricle, being devoid of lungs, the thing is sufficiently manifest.  Here the sac, which is situated at the base of the heart, and is the  part analogous to the auricle in man, plainly forces the blood into the  heart, and the heart, in its turn, conspicuously transmits it by a pipe  or artery, or vessel analogous to an artery; these are facts which are  confirmed by simple ocular inspection, as well as by a division of the  vessel, when the blood is seen to be projected by each pulsation of the  heart.

The same thing is also not difficult of demonstration in those animals  that have, as it were, no more than a single ventricle to the heart,  such as toads, frogs, serpents, and lizards, which have lungs in a  certain sense, as they have a voice. I have many observations by me on  the admirable structure of the lungs of these animals, and matters  appertaining, which, however, I cannot introduce in this place. Their  anatomy plainly shows us that the blood is transferred in them from the  veins to the arteries in the same manner as in higher animals, viz., by  the action of the heart; the way, in fact, is patent, open, manifest;  there is no difficulty, no room for doubt about it; for in them the  matter stands precisely as it would in man were the septum of his heart  perforated or removed, or one ventricle made out of two; and this being  the case, I imagine that no one will doubt as to the way by which the  blood may pass from the veins into the arteries.

But as there are actually more animals which have no lungs than there  are furnished with them, and in like manner a greater number which have  only one ventricle than there are with two, it is open to us to  conclude, judging from the mass or multitude of living creatures, that  for the major part, and generally, there is an open way by which the  blood is transmitted from the veins through the sinuses or cavities of  the heart into the arteries.

I have, however, cogitating with myself, seen further, that the same  thing obtained most obviously in the embryos of those animals that have  lungs; for in the foetus the four vessels belonging to the heart, viz.,  the vena cava, the pulmonary artery, the pulmonary vein, and the great  artery or aorta, are all connected otherwise than in the adult, a fact  sufficiently known to every anatomist. The first contact and union of  the vena cava with the pulmonary veins, which occurs before the cava  opens properly into the right ventricle of the heart, or gives off the  coronary vein, a little above its escape from the liver, is by a lateral  anastomosis; this is an ample foramen, of an oval form, communicating  between the cava and the pulmonary vein, so that the blood is free to  flow in the greatest abundance by that foramen from the vena cava into  the pulmonary vein, and left auricle, and from thence into the left  ventricle. Further, in this foramen ovale, from that part which regards  the pulmonary vein, there is a thin tough membrane, larger than the  opening, extended like an operculum or cover; this membrane in the adult  blocking up the foramen, and adhering on all sides, finally closes it  up, and almost obliterates every trace of it. In the foetus, however,  this membrane is so contrived that falling loosely upon itself, it  permits a ready access to the lungs and heart, yielding a passage to the  blood which is streaming from the cava, and hindering the tide at the  same time from flowing back into that vein. All things, in short, permit  us to believe that in the embryo the blood must constantly pass by this  foramen from the vena cava into the pulmonary vein, and from thence  into the left auricle of the heart; and having once entered there, it  can never regurgitate.

Another union is that by the pulmonary artery, and is effected when that  vessel divides into two branches after its escape from the right  ventricle of the heart. It is as if to the two trunks already mentioned a  third were superadded, a kind of arterial canal, carried obliquely from  the pulmonary artery, to perforate and terminate in the great artery or  aorta. So that in the dissection of the embryo, as it were, two aortas,  or two roots of the great artery, appear springing from the heart. This  canal shrinks gradually after birth, and after a time becomes withered,  and finally almost removed, like the umbilical vessels.

The arterial canal contains no membrane or valve to direct or impede the  flow of blood in this or in that direction: for at the root of the  pulmonary artery, of which the arterial canal is the continuation in the  foetus, there are three semilunar valves, which open from within  outwards, and oppose no obstacle to the blood flowing in this direction  or from the right ventricle into the pulmonary artery and aorta; but  they prevent all regurgitation from the aorta or pulmonic vessels back  upon the right ventricle; closing with perfect accuracy, they oppose an  effectual obstacle to everything of the kind in the embryo. So that  there is also reason to believe that when the heart contracts, the blood  is regularly propelled by the canal or passage indicated from the right  ventricle into the aorta.

What is commonly said in regard to these two great communications, to  wit, that they exist for the nutrition of the lungs, is both improbable  and inconsistent; seeing that in the adult they are closed up,  abolished, and consolidated, although the lungs, by reason of their heat  and motion, must then be presumed to require a larger supply of  nourishment. The same may be said in regard to the assertion that the  heart in the embryo does not pulsate, that it neither acts nor moves, so  that nature was forced to make these communications for the nutrition  of the lungs. This is plainly false; for simple inspection of the  incubated egg, and of embryos just taken out of the uterus, shows that  the heart moves in them precisely as in adults, and that nature feels no  such necessity. I have myself repeatedly seen these motions, and  Aristotle is likewise witness of their reality. “The pulse,” he  observes, “inheres in the very constitution of the heart, and appears  from the beginning as is learned both from the dissection of living  animals and the formation of the chick in the egg.”8 But we further  observe that the passages in question are not only pervious up to the  period of birth in man, as well as in other animals, as anatomists in  general have described them, but for several months subsequently, in  some indeed for several years, not to say for the whole course of life;  as, for example, in the goose, snipe, and various birds and many of the  smaller animals. And this circumstance it was, perhaps, that imposed  upon Botallus, who thought he had discovered a new passage for the blood  from the vena cava into the left ventricle of the heart; and I own that  when I met with the same arrangement in one of the larger members of  the mouse family, in the adult state, I was myself at first led to  something of a like conclusion.

From this it will be understood that in the human embryo, and in the  embryos of animals in which the communications are not closed, the same  thing happens, namely, that the heart by its motion propels the blood by  obvious and open passages from the vena cava into the aorta through the  cavities of both the ventricles, the right one receiving the blood from  the auricle, and propelling it by the pulmonary artery and its  continuation, named the ductus arteriosus, into the aorta; the left, in  like manner, charged by the contraction of its auricle, which has  received its supply through the foramen ovale from the vena cava,  contracting, and projecting the blood through the root of the aorta into  the trunk of that vessel.

In embryos, consequently, whilst the lungs are yet in a state of  inaction, performing no function, subject to no motion any more than if  they had not been present, nature uses the two ventricles of the heart  as if they formed but one, for the transmission of the blood. The  condition of the embryos of those animals which have lungs, whilst these  organs are yet in abeyance and not employed, is the same as that of  those animals which have no lungs.

So it clearly appears in the case of the foetus that the heart by its  action transfers the blood from the vena cava into the aorta, and that  by a route as obvious and open, as if in the adult the two ventricles  were made to communicate by the removal of their septum. We therefore  find that in the greater number of animals — in all, indeed, at a  certain period of their existence — the channels for the transmission of  the blood through the heart are conspicuous. But we have to inquire why  in some creatures — those, namely, that have warm blood, and that have  attained to the adult age, man among the number — we should not conclude  that the same thing is accomplished through the substance of the lungs,  which in the embryo, and at a time when the function of these organs is  in abeyance, nature effects by the direct passages described, and  which, indeed, she seems compelled to adopt through want of a passage by  the lungs; or why it should be better (for nature always does that  which is best) that she should close up the various open routes which  she had formerly made use of in the embryo and foetus, and still uses in  all other animals. Not only does she thereby open up no new apparent  channels for the passages of the blood, but she even shuts up those  which formerly existed.

And now the discussion is brought to this point, that they who inquire  into the ways by which the blood reaches the left ventricle of the  heart: and pulmonary veins from the vena cava, will pursue the wisest  course if they seek by dissection to discover the causes why in the  larger and more perfect animals of mature age nature has rather chosen  to make the blood percolate the parenchyma of the lungs, than, as in  other instances, chosen a direct and obvious course — for I assume that  no other path or mode of transit can be entertained. It must be because  the larger and more perfect animals are warmer, and when adult their  heat greater — ignited, as I might say, and requiring to be damped or  mitigated, that the blood is sent through the lungs, in order that it  may be tempered by the air that is inspired, and prevented from boiling  up, and so becoming extinguished, or something else of the sort. But to  determine these matters, and explain them satisfactorily, were to enter  on a speculation in regard to the office of the lungs and the ends for  which they exist. Upon such a subject, as well as upon what pertains to  respiration, to the necessity and use of the air, etc., as also to the  variety and diversity of organs that exist in the bodies of animals in  connexion with these matters, although I have made a vast number of  observations, I shall not speak till I can more conveniently set them  forth in a treatise apart, lest I should be held as wandering too wide  of my present purpose, which is the use and motion of the heart, and be  charged with speaking of things beside the question, and rather  complicating and quitting than illustrating it. And now returning to my  immediate subject, I go on with what yet remains for demonstration,  viz., that in the more perfect and warmer adult animals, and man, the  blood passes from the right ventricle of the heart by the pulmonary  artery, into the lungs, and thence by the pulmonary veins into the left  auricle, and from there into the left ventricle of the heart. And,  first, I shall show that this may be so, and then I shall prove that it  is so in fact.
Chapter VII
The Blood Passes Through the Substance of the Lungs from the Right  Ventricle of the Heart into the Pulmonary Veins and Left Ventricle

That this is possible, and that there is nothing to prevent it from  being so, appears when we reflect on the way in which water permeating  the earth produces springs and rivulets, or when we speculate on the  means by which the sweat passes through the skin, or the urine through  the substance of the kidneys. It is well known that persons who use the  Spa waters or those of La Madonna, in the territories of Padua, or  others of an acidulous or vitriolated nature, or who simply swallow  drinks by the gallon, pass all off again within an hour or two by the  bladder. Such a quantity of liquid must take some short time in the  concoction: it must pass through the liver (it is allowed by all that  the juices of the food we consume pass twice through this organ in the  course of the day); it must flow through the veins, through the tissues  of the kidneys, and through the ureters into the bladder.

To those, therefore, whom I hear denying that the blood, aye, the whole  mass of the blood, may pass through the substance of the lungs, even as  the nutritive juices percolate the liver, asserting such a proposition  to be impossible, and by no means to be entertained as credible, I  reply, with the poet, that they are of that race of men who, when they  will, assent full readily, and when they will not, by no manner of  means; who, when their assent is wanted, fear, and when it is not, fear  not to give it.

The substance of the liver is extremely dense, so is that of the kidney;  the lungs, however, are of a much looser texture, and if compared with  the kidneys are absolutely spongy. In the liver there is no forcing, no  impelling power; in the lungs the blood is forced on by the pulse of the  right ventricle, the necessary effect of whose impulse is the  distension of the vessels and the pores of the lungs. And then the  lungs, in respiration, are perpetually rising and falling: motions, the  effect of which must needs be to open and shut the pores and vessels,  precisely as in the case of a sponge, and of parts having a spongy  structure, when they are alternately compressed and again are suffered  to expand. The liver, on the contrary, remains at rest, and is never  seen to be dilated or constricted. Lastly, if no one denies the  possibility in man, oxen, and the larger animals generally, of the whole  of the ingested juices passing through the liver, in order to reach the  vena cava, for this reason, that if nourishment is to go on, these  juices must needs get into the veins, and there is no other way but the  one indicated, why should not the same arguments be held of avail for  the passage of the blood in adults through the lungs? Why not maintain,  with Columbus, that skilful and learned anatomist, that it must be so  from the capacity and structure of the pulmonary vessels, and from the  fact of the pulmonary veins and ventricle corresponding with them, being  always found to contain blood, which must needs have come from the  veins, and by no other passage save through the lungs? Columbus, and we  also, from what precedes, from dissections, and other arguments,  conceive the thing to be clear. But as there are some who admit nothing  unless upon authority, let them learn that the truth I am contending for  can be confirmed from Galen’s own words, namely, that not only may the  blood be transmitted from the pulmonary artery into the pulmonary veins,  then into the left ventricle of the heart, and from thence into the  arteries of the body, but that this is effected by the ceaseless  pulsation of the heart and the motion of the lungs in breathing.

There are, as everyone knows, three sigmoid or semilunar valves situated  at the orifice of the pulmonary artery, which effectually prevent the  blood sent into the vessel from returning into the cavity of the heart.  Now Galen, explaining the use of these valves, and the necessity for  them, employs the following language: 9 “There is everywhere a mutual  anastomosis and inosculation of the arteries with the veins, and they  severally transmit both blood and spirit, by certain invisible and  undoubtedly very narrow passages. Now if the mouth of the pulmonary  artery had stood in like manner continually open, and nature had found  no contrivance for closing it when requisite, and opening it again, it  would have been impossible that the blood could ever have passed by the  invisible and delicate mouths, during the contractions of the thorax,  into the arteries; for all things are not alike readily attracted or  repelled; but that which is light is more readily drawn in, the  instrument being dilated, and forced out again when it is contracted,  than that which is heavy; and in like manner is anything drawn more  rapidly along an ample conduit, and again driven forth, than it is  through a narrow tube. But when the thorax is contracted the pulmonary  veins, which are in the lungs, being driven inwardly, and powerfully  compressed on every side, immediately force out some of the spirit they  contain, and at the same time assume a certain portion of blood by those  subtle mouths, a thing that could never come to pass were the blood at  liberty to flow back into the heart through the great orifice of the  pulmonary artery. But its return through this great opening being  prevented, when it is compressed on every side, a certain portion of it  distils into the pulmonary veins by the minute orifices mentioned.” And  shortly afterwards, in the next chapter, he says: “The more the thorax  contracts, the more it strives to force out the blood, the more exactly  do these membranes (viz., the semilunar valves) close up the mouth of  the vessel, and suffer nothing to regurgitate.” The same fact he has  also alluded to in a preceding part of the tenth chapter: “Were there no  valves, a three-fold inconvenience would result, so that the blood  would then perform this lengthened course in vain; it would flow inwards  during the disastoles of the lungs and fill all their arteries; but in  the systoles, in the manner of the tide, it would ever and anon, like  the Euripus, flow backwards and forwards by the same way, with a  reciprocating motion, which would nowise suit the blood. This, however,  may seem a matter of little moment: but if it meantime appear that the  function of respiration suffer, then I think it would be looked upon as  no trifle, etc.” Shortly afterwards he says: “And then a third  inconvenience, by no means to be thought lightly of, would follow, were  the blood moved backwards during the expirations, had not our Maker  instituted those supplementary membranes. “In the eleventh chapter he  concludes: “That they (the valves) have all a common use, and that it is  to prevent regurgitation or backward motion; each, however, having a  proper function, the one set drawing matters from the heart, and  preventing their return, the other drawing matters into the heart, and  preventing their escape from it. For nature never intended to distress  the heart with needless labour, neither to bring aught into the organ  which it had been better to have kept away, nor to take from it again  aught which it was requisite should be brought. Since, then, there are  four orifices in all, two in either ventricle, one of these induces, the  other educes.” And again he says: “Farther, since there is one vessel,  which consists of a simple covering implanted in the heart, and another  which is double, extending from it (Galen is here speaking of the right  side of the heart, but I extend his observations to the left side also),  a kind of reservoir had to be provided, to which both belonging, the  blood should be drawn in by one, and sent out by the other.”

Galen adduces this argument for the transit of the blood by the right  ventricle from the vena cava into the lungs; but we can use it with  still greater propriety, merely changing the terms, for the passage of  the blood from the veins through the heart into the arteries. From  Galen, however, that great man, that father of physicians, it clearly  appears that the blood passes through the lungs from the pulmonary  artery into the minute branches of the pulmonary veins, urged to this  both by the pulses of the heart and by the motions of the lungs and  thorax; that the heart, moreover, is incessantly receiving and expelling  the blood by and from its ventricles, as from a magazine or cistern,  and for this end it is furnished with four sets of valves, two serving  for the induction and two for the eduction of the blood, lest, like the  Euripus, it should be incommodiously sent hither and thither, or flow  back into the cavity which it should have quitted, or quit the part  where its presence was required, and so the heart might be oppressed  with labour in vain, and the office of the lungs be interfered with. 10  Finally, our position that the blood is continually permeating from the  right to the left ventricle, from the vena cava into the aorta, through  the porosities of the lungs, plainly appears from this, that since the  blood is incessantly sent from the right ventricle into the lungs by the  pulmonary artery, and in like manner is incessantly drawn from the  lungs into the left ventricle, as appears from what precedes and the  position of the valves, it cannot do otherwise than pass through  continuously. And then, as the blood is incessantly flowing into the  right ventricle of the heart, and is continually passed out from the  left, as appears in like manner, and as is obvious, both to sense and  reason, it is impossible that the blood can do otherwise than pass  continually from the vena cava into the aorta.

Dissection consequently shows distinctly what takes place in the  majority of animals, and indeed in all, up to the period of their  maturity; and that the same thing occurs in adults is equally certain,  both from Galen’s words, and what has already been said, only that in  the former the transit is effected by open and obvious passages, in the  latter by the hidden porosities of the lungs and the minute  inosculations of vessels. It therefore appears that, although one  ventricle of the heart, the left to wit, would suffice for the  distribution of the blood over the body, and its eduction from the vena  cava, as indeed is done in those creatures that have no lungs, nature,  nevertheless, when she ordained that the same blood should also  percolate the lungs, saw herself obliged to add the right ventricle, the  pulse of which should force the blood from the vena cava through the  lungs into the cavity of the left ventricle. In this way, it may be  said, that the right ventricle is made for the sake of the lungs, and  for the transmission of the blood through them, not for their nutrition;  for it were unreasonable to suppose that the lungs should require so  much more copious a supply of nutriment, and that of so much purer and  more spirituous a nature as coming immediately from the ventricle of the  heart, that either the brain, with its peculiarly pure substance, or  the eyes, with their lustrous and truly admirable structure, or the  flesh of the heart itself, which is more suitably nourished by the  coronary artery.
Chapter VIII
Of the Quantity of Blood Passing Through the Heart from the Veins to the Arteries; and of the Circular Motion of the Blood

Thus far I have spoken of the passage of the blood from the veins into  the arteries, and of the manner in which it is transmitted and  distributed by the action of the heart; points to which some, moved  either by the authority of Galen or Columbus, or the reasonings of  others, will give in their adhesion. But what remains to be said upon  the quantity and source of the blood which thus passes is of a character  so novel and unheard-of that I not only fear injury to myself from the  envy of a few, but I tremble lest I have mankind at large for my  enemies, so much doth wont and custom become a second nature. Doctrine  once sown strikes deep its root, and respect for antiquity influences  all men. Still the die is cast, and my trust is in my love of truth and  the candour of cultivated minds. And sooth to say, when I surveyed my  mass of evidence, whether derived from vivisections, and my various  reflections on them, or from the study of the ventricles of the heart  and the vessels that enter into and issue from them, the symmetry and  size of these conduits — for nature doing nothing in vain, would never  have given them so large a relative size without a purpose — or from  observing the arrangement and intimate structure of the valves in  particular, and of the other parts of the heart in general, with many  things besides, I frequently and seriously bethought me, and long  revolved in my mind, what might be the quantity of blood which was  transmitted, in how short a time its passage might be effected, and the  like. But not finding it possible that this could be supplied by the  juices of the ingested aliment without the veins on the one hand  becoming drained, and the arteries on the other getting ruptured through  the excessive charge of blood, unless the blood should somehow find its  way from the arteries into the veins, and so return to the right side  of the heart, I began to think whether there might not be a MOTION, AS  IT WERE, IN A CIRCLE. Now, this I afterwards found to be true; and I  finally saw that the blood, forced by the action of the left ventricle  into the arteries, was distributed to the body at large, and its several  parts, in the same manner as it is sent through the lungs, impelled by  the right ventricle into the pulmonary artery, and that it: then passed  through the veins and along the vena cava, and so round to the left  ventricle in the manner already indicated. This motion we may be allowed  to call circular, in the same way as Aristotle says that the air and  the rain emulate the circular motion of the superior bodies; for the  moist earth, warmed by the sun, evaporates; the vapours drawn upwards  are condensed, and descending in the form of rain, moisten the earth  again. By this arrangement are generations of living things produced;  and in like manner are tempests and meteors engendered by the circular  motion, and by the approach and recession of the sun.

And similarly does it come to pass in the body, through the motion of  the blood, that the various parts are nourished, cherished, quickened by  the warmer, more perfect, vaporous, spirituous, and, as I may say,  alimentive blood; which, on the other hand, owing to its contact with  these parts, becomes cooled, coagulated, and so to speak effete. It then  returns to its sovereign, the heart, as if to its source, or to the  inmost home of the body, there to recover its state of excellence or  perfection. Here it renews its fluidity, natural heat, and becomes  powerful, fervid, a kind of treasury of life, and impregnated with  spirits, it might be said with balsam. Thence it is again dispersed. All  this depends on the motion and action of the heart.

The heart, consequently, is the beginning of life; the sun of the  microcosm, even as the sun in his turn might well be designated the  heart of the world; for it is the heart by whose virtue and pulse the  blood is moved, perfected, and made nutrient, and is preserved from  corruption and coagulation; it is the household divinity which,  discharging its function, nourishes, cherishes, quickens the whole body,  and is indeed the foundation of life, the source of all action. But of  these things we shall speak more opportunely when we come to speculate  upon the final cause of this motion of the heart.

As the blood-vessels, therefore, are the canals and agents that  transport the blood, they are of two kinds, the cava and the aorta; and  this not by reason of there being two sides of the body, as Aristotle  has it, but because of the difference of office, not, as is commonly  said, in consequence of any diversity of structure, for in many animals,  as I have said, the vein does not differ from the artery in the  thickness of its walls, but solely in virtue of their distinct functions  and uses. A vein and an artery, both styled veins by the ancients, and  that not without reason, as Galen has remarked, for the artery is the  vessel which carries the blood from the heart to the body at large, the  vein of the present day bringing it back from the general system to the  heart; the former is the conduit from, the latter the channel to, the  heart; the latter contains the cruder, effete blood, rendered unfit for  nutrition; the former transmits the digested, perfect, peculiarly  nutritive fluid.
Chapter IX
That There is a Circulation of the Blood is Confirmed from the First Proposition

But lest anyone should say that we give them words only, and make mere  specious assertions without any foundation, and desire to innovate  without sufficient cause, three points present themselves for  confirmation, which, being stated, I conceive that the truth I contend  for will follow necessarily, and appear as a thing obvious to all.  First, the blood is incessantly transmitted by the action of the heart  from the vena cava to the arteries in such quantity that it cannot be  supplied from the ingesta, and in such a manner that the whole must very  quickly pass through the organ; second, the blood under the influence  of the arterial pulse enters and is impelled in a continuous, equable,  and incessant stream through every part and member of the body, in much  larger quantity than were sufficient for nutrition, or than the whole  mass of fluids could supply; third, the veins in like manner return this  blood incessantly to the heart from parts and members of the body.  These points proved, I conceive it will be manifest that the blood  circulates, revolves, propelled and then returning, from the heart to  the extremities, from the extremities to the heart, and thus that it  performs a kind of circular motion.

Let us assume, either arbitrarily or from experiment, the quantity of  blood which the left ventricle of the heart will contain when distended,  to be, say, two ounces, three ounces, or one ounce and a half — in the  dead body I have found it to hold upwards of two ounces. Let us assume  further how much less the heart will hold in the contracted than in the  dilated state; and how much blood it will project into the aorta upon  each contraction; and all the world allows that with the systole  something is always projected, a necessary consequence demonstrated in  the third chapter, and obvious from the structure of the valves; and let  us suppose as approaching the truth that the fourth, or fifth, or  sixth, or even but the eighth part of its charge is thrown into the  artery at each contraction; this would give either half an ounce, or  three drachms, or one drachm of blood as propelled by the heart at each  pulse into the aorta; which quantity, by reason of the valves at the  root of the vessel, can by no means return into the ventricle. Now, in  the course of half an hour, the heart will have made more than one  thousand beats, in some as many as two, three, and even four thousand.  Multiplying the number of drachms propelled by the number of pulses, we  shall have either one thousand half ounces, or one thousand times three  drachms, or a like proportional quantity of blood, according to the  amount which we assume as propelled with each stroke of the heart, sent  from this organ into the artery — a larger quantity in every case than  is contained in the whole body! In the same way, in the sheep or dog,  say but a single scruple of blood passes with each stroke of the heart,  in one half-hour we should have one thousand scruples, or about three  pounds and a half, of blood injected into the aorta; but the body of  neither animal contains above four pounds of blood, a fact which I have  myself ascertained in the case of the sheep.

Upon this supposition, therefore, assumed merely as a ground for  reasoning, we see the whole mass of blood passing through the heart,  from the veins to the arteries, and in like manner through the lungs.

But let it be said that this does not take place in half an hour, but in  an hour, or even in a day; any way, it is still manifest that more  blood passes through the heart in consequence of its action, than can  either be supplied by the whole of the ingesta, or than can be contained  in the veins at the same moment.

Nor can it be allowed that the heart in contracting sometimes propels  and sometimes does not propel, or at most propels but very little, a  mere nothing, or an imaginary something: all this, indeed, has already  been refuted, and is, besides, contrary both to sense and reason. For if  it be a necessary effect of the dilatation of the heart that its  ventricles become filled with blood, it is equally so that, contracting,  these cavities should expel their contents; and this not in any  trifling measure. For neither are the conduits small, nor the  contractions few in number, but frequent, and always in some certain  proportion, whether it be a third or a sixth, or an eighth, to the total  capacity of the ventricles, so that a like proportion of blood must be  expelled, and a like proportion received with each stroke of the heart,  the capacity of the ventricle contracted always bearing a certain  relation to the capacity of the ventricle when dilated. And since, in  dilating, the ventricles cannot be supposed to get filled with nothing,  or with an imaginary something, so in contracting they never expel  nothing or aught imaginary, but always a certain something, viz., blood,  in proportion to the amount of the contraction. Whence it is to be  concluded that if at one stroke the heart of man, the ox, or the sheep,  ejects but a single drachm of blood and there are one thousand strokes  in half an hour, in this interval there will have been ten pounds five  ounces expelled; if with each stroke two drachms are expelled, the  quantity would, of course, amount to twenty pounds and ten ounces; if  half an ounce, the quantity would come to forty-one pounds and eight  ounces; and were there one ounce, it would be as much as eighty-three  pounds and four ounces; the whole of which, in the course of one-half  hour, would have been transfused from the veins to the arteries. The  actual quantity of blood expelled at each stroke of the heart, and the  circumstances under which it is either greater or less than ordinary, I  leave for particular determination afterwards, from numerous  observations which I have made on the subject.

Meantime this much I know, and would here proclaim to all, that the  blood is transfused at one time in larger, at another in smaller,  quantity; and that the circuit of the blood is accomplished now more  rapidly, now more slowly, according to the temperament, age, etc., of  the individual, to external and internal circumstances, to naturals and  non-naturals — sleep, rest, food, exercise, affections of the mind, and  the like. But, supposing even the smallest quantity of blood to be  passed through the heart and the lungs with each pulsation, a vastly  greater amount would still be thrown into the arteries and whole body  than could by any possibility be supplied by the food consumed. It could  be furnished in no other way than by making a circuit and returning.

This truth, indeed, presents itself obviously before us when we consider  what happens in the dissection of living animals; the great artery need  not be divided, but a very small branch only (as Galen even proves in  regard to man), to have the whole of the blood in the body, as well that  of the veins as of the arteries, drained away in the course of no long  time — some half-hour or less. Butchers are well aware of the fact and  can bear witness to it; for, cutting the throat of an ox and so dividing  the vessels of the neck, in less than a quarter of an hour they have  all the vessels bloodless — the whole mass of blood has escaped. The  same thing also occasionally occurs with great rapidity in performing  amputations and removing tumors in the human subject.

Nor would this argument lose of its force, did any one say that in  killing animals in the shambles, and performing amputations, the blood  escaped in equal, if not perchance in larger quantity by the veins than  by the arteries. The contrary of this statement, indeed, is certainly  the truth; the veins, in fact, collapsing, and being without any  propelling power, and further, because of the impediment of the valves,  as I shall show immediately, pour out but very little blood; whilst the  arteries spout it forth with force abundantly, impetuously, and as if it  were propelled by a syringe. And then the experiment is easily tried of  leaving the vein untouched and only dividing the artery in the neck of a  sheep or dog, when it will be seen with what force, in what abundance,  and how quickly, the whole blood in the body, of the veins as well as of  the arteries, is emptied. But the arteries receive blood from the veins  in no other way than by transmission through the heart, as we have  already seen; so that if the aorta be tied at the base of the heart, and  the carotid or any other artery be opened, no one will now be surprised  to find it empty, and the veins only replete with blood.

And now the cause is manifest, why in our dissections we usually find so  large a quantity of blood in the veins, so little in the arteries; why  there is much in the right ventricle, little in the left, which probably  led the ancients to believe that the arteries (as their name implies)  contained nothing but spirits during the life of an animal. The true  cause of the difference is perhaps this, that as there is no passage to  the arteries, save through the lungs and heart, when an animal has  ceased to breathe and the lungs to move, the blood in the pulmonary  artery is prevented from passing into the pulmonary veins, and from  thence into the left ventricle of the heart; just as we have already  seen the same transit prevented in the embryo, by the want of movement  in the lungs and the alternate opening, and shutting of their hidden and  invisible porosities and apertures. But the heart not ceasing to act at  the same precise moment as the lungs, but surviving them and continuing  to pulsate for a time, the left ventricle and arteries go on  distributing their blood to the body at large and sending it into the  veins; receiving none from the lungs, however, they are soon exhausted,  and left, as it were, empty. But even this fact confirms our views, in  no trifling manner, seeing that it can be ascribed to no other than the  cause we have just assumed.

Moreover, it appears from this that the more frequently or forcibly the  arteries pulsate, the more speedily will the body be exhausted of its  blood during hemorrhage. Hence, also, it happens, that in fainting fits  and in states of alarm, when the heart beats more languidly and less  forcibly, hemorrhages are diminished and arrested.

Still further, it is from this, that after death, when the heart has  ceased to beat, it is impossible, by dividing either the jugular or  femoral veins and arteries, by any effort, to force out more than  one-half of the whole mass of the blood. Neither could the butchers ever  bleed the carcass effectually did he neglect to cut the throat of the  ox which he has knocked on the head and stunned, before the heart had  ceased beating.

Finally, we are now in a condition to suspect wherefore it is that no  one has yet said anything to the purpose upon the anastomosis of the  veins and arteries, either as to where or how it is effected, or for  what purpose. I now enter upon the investigation of the subject.
Chapter X
The First Position: Of the Quantity of Blood Passing from the Veins to  the Arteries. And that There is a Circuit of the Blood, Freed from  Objections, and Farther Confirmed by Experiment

So far our first position is confirmed, whether the thing be referred to  calculation or to experiment and dissection, viz., that the blood is  incessantly poured into the arteries in larger quantities than it can be  supplied by the food; so that the whole passing over in a short space  of time, it is matter of necessity that the blood perform a circuit,  that it return to whence it set out.

But if anyone shall here object that a large quantity may pass through  and yet no necessity be found for a circulation, that all may come from  the meat and drink consumed, and quote as an illustration the abundant  supply of milk in the mammae — for a cow will give three, four, and even  seven gallons and more in a day, and a woman two or three pints whilst  nursing a child or twins, which must manifestly be derived from the food  consumed; it may be answered that the heart by computation does as much  and more in the course of an hour or two.

And if not yet convinced, he shall still insist that when an artery is  divided, a preternatural route is, as it were, opened, and that so the  blood escapes in torrents, but that the same thing does not happen in  the healthy and uninjured body when no outlet is made; and that in  arteries filled, or in their natural state, so large a quantity of blood  cannot pass in so short a space of time as to make any return necessary  — to all this it may be answered that, from the calculation already  made, and the reasons assigned, it appears that by so much as the heart  in its dilated state contains, in addition to its contents in the state  of constriction, so much in a general way must it emit upon each  pulsation, and in such quantity must the blood pass, the body being  entire and naturally constituted.

But in serpents, and several fishes, by tying the veins some way below  the heart you will perceive a space between the ligature and the heart  speedily to become empty; so that, unless you would deny the evidence of  your senses, you must needs admit the return of the blood to the heart.  The same thing will also plainly appear when we come to discuss our  second position.

Let us here conclude with a single example, confirming all that has been  said, and from which everyone may obtain conviction through the  testimony of his own eyes.

If a live snake be laid open, the heart will be seen pulsating quietly,  distinctly, for more than an hour, moving like a worm, contracting in  its longitudinal dimensions, (for it is of an oblong shape), and  propelling its contents. It becomes of a paler colour in the systole, of  a deeper tint in the diastole; and almost all things else are seen by  which I have already said that the truth I contend for is established,  only that here everything takes place more slowly, and is more distinct.  This point in particular may be observed more clearly than the noonday  sun: the vena cava enters the heart at its lower part, the artery quits  it at the superior part; the vein being now seized either with forceps  or between the finger and the thumb, and the course of the blood for  some space below the heart interrupted, you will perceive the part that  intervenes between the fingers and the heart almost immediately to  become empty, the blood being exhausted by the action of the heart; at  the same time the heart will become of a much paler colour, even in its  state of dilatation, than it was before; it is also smaller than at  first, from wanting blood: and then it begins to beat more slowly, so  that it seems at length as if it were about to die. But the impediment  to the flow of blood being removed, instantly the colour and the size of  the heart are restored.

If, on the contrary, the artery instead of the vein be compressed or  tied, you will observe the part between the obstacle and the heart, and  the heart itself, to become inordinately distended, to assume a deep  purple or even livid colour, and at length to be so much oppressed with  blood that you will believe it about to be choked; but the obstacle  removed, all things immediately return to their natural state and  colour, size, and impulse.

Here then we have evidence of two kinds of death: extinction from  deficiency, and suffocation from excess. Examples of both have now been  set before you, and you have had opportunity of viewing the truth  contended for with your own eyes in the heart.
Chapter XI
The Second Position is Demonstrated

That this may the more clearly appear to everyone, I have here to cite  certain experiments, from which it seems obvious that the blood enters a  limb by the arteries, and returns from it by the veins; that the  arteries are the vessels carrying the blood from the heart, and the  veins the returning channels of the blood to the heart; that in the  limbs and extreme parts of the body the blood passes either immediately  by anastomosis from the arteries into the veins, or mediately by the  porosities of the flesh, or in both ways, as has already been said in  speaking of the passage of the blood through the lungs whence it appears  manifest that in the circuit the blood moves from that place to this  place, and from that point to this one; from the centre to the  extremities, to wit; and from the extreme parts back to the centre.  Finally, upon grounds of calculation, with the same elements as before,  it will be obvious that the quantity can neither be accounted for by the  ingeata, nor yet be held necessary to nutrition.

The same thing will also appear in regard to ligatures, and wherefore  they are said to draw; though this is neither from the heat, nor the  pain, nor the vacuum they occasion, nor indeed from any other cause yet  thought of; it will also explain the uses and advantages to be derived  from ligatures in medicine, the principle upon which they either  suppress or occasion hemorrhage; how they induce sloughing and more  extensive mortification in extremities; and how they act in the  castration of animals and the removal of warts and fleshy tumours. But  it has come to pass, from no one having duly weighed and understood the  cause and rationale of these various effects, that though almost all,  upon the faith of the old writers, recommend ligatures in the treatment  of disease, yet very few comprehend their proper employment, or derive  any real assistance from them in effecting cures.

Ligatures are either very tight or of medium tightness. A ligature I  designate as tight or perfect when it so constricts an extremity that no  vessel can be felt pulsating beyond it. Such a ligature we use in  amputations to control the flow of blood; and such also are employed in  the castration of animals and the ablation of tumours. In the latter  instances, all afflux of nutriment and heat being prevented by the  ligature, we see the testes and large fleshy tumours dwindle, die, and  finally fall off.

Ligatures of medium tightness I regard as those which compress a limb  firmly all round, but short of pain, and in such a way as still suffers a  certain degree of pulsation to be felt in the artery beyond them. Such a  ligature is in use in blood-letting, an operation in which the fillet  applied above the elbow is not drawn so tight but that the arteries at  the wrist may still be felt beating under the finger.

Now let anyone make an experiment upon the arm of a man, either using  such a fillet as is employed in blood-letting, or grasping the limb  lightly with his hand, the best subject for it being one who is lean,  and who has large veins, and the best time after exercise, when the body  is warm, the pulse is full, and the blood carried in larger quantity to  the extremities, for all then is more conspicuous; under such  circumstances let a ligature be thrown about the extremity, and drawn as  tightly as can be borne, it will first be perceived that beyond the  ligature, neither in the wrist nor anywhere else, do the arteries  pulsate, at the same time that immediately above the ligature the artery  begins to rise higher at each diastole, to throb mere violently, and to  swell in its vicinity with a kind of tide, as if it strove to break  through and overcome the obstacle to its current; the artery here, in  short, appears as if it were preternaturally full. The hand under such  circumstances retains its natural colour and appearance; in the course  of time it begins to fall somewhat in temperature, indeed, but nothing  is drawn into it.

After the bandage has been kept on for some short time in this way, let  it be slackened a little, brought to that state or term of medium  tightness which is used in bleeding, and it will be seen that the whole  hand and arm will instantly become deeply coloured and distended, and  the veins show themselves tumid and knotted; after ten or twelve pulses  of the artery, the hand will be perceived excessively distended,  injected, gorged with blood, drawn, as it is said, by this medium  ligature, without pain, or heat, or any horror of a vacuum, or any other  cause yet indicated.

If the finger be applied over the artery as it is pulsating by the edge  of the fillet, at the moment of slackening it, the blood will be felt to  glide through, as it were, underneath the finger; and he, too, upon  whose arm the experiment is made, when the ligature is slackened, is  distinctly conscious of a sensation of warmth, and of something, viz., a  stream of blood suddenly making its way along the course of the vessels  and diffusing itself through the hand, which at the same time begins to  feel hot, and becomes distended.

As we had noted, in connexion with the tight ligature, that the artery  above the bandage was distended and pulsated, not below it, so, in the  case of the moderately tight bandage, on the contrary, do we find that  the veins below, never above, the fillet, swell, and become dilated,  whilst the arteries shrink; and such is the degree of distension of the  veins here, that it is only very strong pressure that will force the  blood beyond the fillet, and cause any of the veins in the upper part of  the arm to rise.

From these facts it is easy for every careful observer to learn that the  blood enters an extremity by the arteries; for when they are  effectually compressed nothing is drawn to the member; the hand  preserves its colour; nothing flows into it, neither is it distended;  but when the pressure is diminished, as it is with the bleeding fillet,  it is manifest that the blood is instantly thrown in with force, for  then the hand begins to swell; which is as much as to say, that when the  arteries pulsate the blood is flowing through them, as it is when the  moderately tight ligature is applied; but where they do not pulsate, as,  when a tight ligature is used, they cease from transmitting anything,  they are only distended above the part where the ligature is applied.  The veins again being compressed, nothing can flow through them; the  certain indication of which is, that below the ligature they are much  more tumid than above it, and than they usually appear when there is no  bandage upon the arm.

It therefore plainly appears that the ligature prevents the return of  the blood through the veins to the parts above it, and maintains those  beneath it in a state of permanent distension. But the arteries, in  spite of its pressure, and under the force and impulse of the heart,  send on the blood from the internal parts of the body to the parts  beyond the ligature. And herein consists the difference between the  tight and the medium ligature, that the former not only prevents the  passage of the blood in the veins, but in the arteries also; the latter,  however, whilst it does not prevent the force of the pulse from  extending beyond it, and so propelling the blood to the extremities of  the body, compresses the veins, and greatly or altogether impedes the  return of the blood through them.

Seeing, therefore, that the moderately tight ligature renders the veins  turgid and distended, and the whole hand full of blood, I ask, whence is  this? Does the blood accumulate below the ligature coming through the  veins, or through the arteries, or passing by certain hidden porosities?  Through the veins it cannot come; still less can it come through  invisible channels; it must needs, then, arrive by the arteries, in  conformity with all that has been already said. That it cannot flow in  by the veins appears plainly enough from the fact that the blood cannot  be forced towards the heart unless the ligature be removed; when this is  done suddenly all the veins collapse, and disgorge themselves of their  contents into the superior parts, the hand at the same time resumes its  natural pale colour, the tumefaction and the stagnating blood having  disappeared.

Moreover, he whose arm or wrist has thus been bound for some little time  with the medium bandage, so that it has not only got swollen and livid  but cold, when the fillet is undone is aware of something cold making  its way upwards along with the returning blood, and reaching the elbow  or the axilla. And I have myself been inclined to think that this cold  blood rising upwards to the heart was the cause of the fainting that  often occurs after blood-letting: fainting frequently supervenes even in  robust subjects, and mostly at the moment of undoing the fillet, as the  vulgar say, from the turning of the blood.

Farther, when we see the veins below the ligature instantly swell up and  become gorged, when from extreme tightness it is somewhat relaxed, the  arteries meantime continuing unaffected, this is an obvious indication  that the blood passes from the arteries into the veins, and not from the  veins into the arteries, and that there is either an anastomosis of the  two orders of vessels, or porosities in the flesh and solid parts  generally that are permeable to the blood It is farther an indication  that the veins have frequent communications with one another, because  they all become turgid together, whilst under the medium ligature  applied above the elbow; and if any single small vein be pricked with a  lancet, they all speedily shrink, and disburthening themselves into this  they subside almost simultaneously.

These considerations will enable anyone to understand the nature of the  attraction that is exerted by ligatures, and perchance of fluxes  generally; how, for example, when the veins are compressed by a bandage  of medium tightness applied above the elbow, the blood cannot escape,  whilst it still continues to be driven in, by the forcing power of the  heart, by which the parts are of necessity filled, gorged with blood.  And how should it be otherwise? Heat and pain and a vacuum draw, indeed;  but in such wise only that parts are filled, not preternaturally  distended or gorged, and not so suddenly and violently overwhelmed with  the charge of blood forced in upon them, that the flesh is lacerated and  the vessels ruptured. Nothing of the kind as an effect of heat, or  pain, or the vacuum force, is either credible or demonstrable.

Besides, the ligature is competent to occasion the afflux in question  without either pain, or heat, or a vacuum. Were pain in any way the  cause, how should it happen that, with the arm bound above the elbow,  the hand and fingers should swell being the bandage, and their veins  become distended? The pressure of the bandage certainly prevents the  blood from getting there by the veins. And then, wherefore is there  neither swelling nor repletion of the veins, nor any sign or symptom of  attraction or afflux, above the ligature? But this is the obvious cause  of the preternatural attraction and swelling below the bandage, and in  the hand and fingers, that the blood is entering abundantly, and with  force, but cannot pass out again.

Now is not this the cause of all tumefaction, as indeed Avicenna has it,  and of all oppressive redundancy in parts, that the access to them is  open, but the egress from them is. closed? Whence it comes that they are  gorged and tumefied. And may not the same thing happen in local  inflammations, where, so long as the swelling is on the increase, and  has not reached its extreme term, a full pulse is felt in the part,  especially when the disease is of the more acute kind, and the swelling  usually takes place most rapidly. But these are matters for after  discussion. Or does this, which occurred in my own case, happen from the  same cause? Thrown from a carriage upon one occasion, I struck my  forehead a blow upon the place where a twig of the artery advances from  the temple, and immediately, within the time in which twenty beats could  have been made I felt a tumour the size of an egg developed, without  either heat or any great pain: the near vicinity of the artery had  caused the blood to be effused into the bruised part with unusual force  and velocity.

And now, too, we understand why in phlebotomy we apply our ligature  above the part that is punctured, not below it; did the flow come from  above, not from below, the constriction in this case would not only be  of no service, but would prove a positive hindrance; it would have to be  applied below the orifice, in order to have the flow more free, did the  blood descend by the veins from superior to inferior parts; but as it  is elsewhere forced through the extreme arteries into the extreme veins,  and the return in these last is opposed by the ligature, so do they  fill and swell, and being thus filled and distended, they are made  capable of projecting their charge with force, and to a distance, when  any one of them is suddenly punctured; but the ligature being slackened,  and the returning channels thus left open, the blood forthwith no  longer escapes, save by drops; and, as all the world knows, if in  performing phlebotomy the bandage be either slackened too much or the  limb be bound too tightly, the blood escapes without force, because in  the one case the returning channels are not adequately obstructed; in  other the channels of influx, the arteries, are impeded.
Chapter XII
That There is a Circulation of the Blood is Shown from the Second Position Demonstrated

If these things be so, another point which I have already referred to,  viz., the continual passage of the blood through the heart will also be  confirmed. We have seen, that the blood passes from the arteries into  the veins, not from the veins into the arteries; we have seen, farther,  that almost the whole of the blood may be withdrawn from a puncture made  in one of the cutaneous veins of the arm if a bandage properly applied  be used; we have seen, still farther, that the blood flows so freely and  rapidly that not only is the whole quantity which was contained in the  arm beyond the ligature, and before the puncture was made, discharged,  but the whole which is contained in the body, both that of the arteries  and that of the veins.

Whence we must admit, first, that the blood is sent along with an  impulse, and that it is urged with force below the ligature; for it  escapes with force, which force it receives from the pulse and power of  the heart; for the force and motion of the blood are derived from the  heart alone. Second, that the afflux proceeds from the heart, and  through the heart by a course from the great veins; for it gets into the  parts below the ligature through the arteries, not through the veins;  and the arteries nowhere receive blood from the veins, nowhere receive  blood save and except from the left ventricle of the heart. Nor could so  large a quantity of blood be drawn from one vein (a ligature having  been duly applied), nor with such impetuousity, such readiness, such  celerity, unless through the medium of the impelling power of the heart.

But if all things be as they are now represented, we shall feel  ourselves at liberty to calculate the quantity of the blood, and to  reason on its circular motion. Should anyone, for instance, performing  phlebotomy, suffer the blood to flow in the manner it usually does, with  force and freely, for some half hour or so, no question but that the  greatest part of the blood being abstracted, faintings and syncopes  would ensue, and that not only would the arteries but the great veins  also be nearly emptied of their contents. It is only consonant with  reason to conclude that in the course of the half hour hinted at, so  much as has escaped has also passed from the great veins through the  heart into the aorta. And further, if we calculate how many ounces flow  through one arm, or how many pass in twenty or thirty pulsations under  the medium ligature, we shall have some grounds for estimating how much  passes through the other arm in the same space of time: how much through  both lower extremities, how much through the neck on either side, and  through all the other arteries and veins of the body, all of which have  been supplied with fresh blood, and as this blood must have passed  through the lungs and ventricles of the heart, and must have come from  the great veins, we shall perceive that a circulation is absolutely  necessary, seeing that the quantities hinted at cannot be supplied  immediately from the ingesta, and are vastly more than can be requisite  for the mere nutrition of the parts.

It is still further to be observed, that in practising phlebotomy the  truths contended for are sometimes confirmed in another way; for having  tied up the arm properly, and made the puncture duly, still, if from  alarm or any other causes, a state of faintness supervenes, in which the  heart always pulsates more languidly, the blood does not flow freely,  but distils by drops only. The reason is, that with a somewhat greater  than usual resistance offered to the transit of the blood by the  bandage, coupled with the weaker action of the heart, and its diminished  impelling power, the stream cannot make its way under the ligature; and  farther, owing to the weak and languishing state of the heart, the  blood is not transferred in such quantity as wont from the veins to the  arteries through the sinuses of that organ. So also, and for the same  reasons, are the menstrual fluxes of women, and indeed hemorrhages of  every kind, controlled. And now, a contrary state of things occurring,  the patient getting rid of his fear and recovering his courage, the  pulse strength is increased, the arteries begin again to beat with  greater force, and to drive the blood even into the part that is bound;  so that the blood now springs from the puncture in the vein, and flows  in continuous stream.
Chapter XIII
The Third Position is Confirmed: And the Circulation of the Blood is Demonstrated from it

Thus far we have spoken of the quantity of blood passing through the  heart and the lungs in the centre of the body, and in like manner from  the arteries into the veins in the peripheral parts and the body at  large. We have yet to explain, however, in what manner the blood finds  its way back to the heart from the extremities by the veins, and how and  in what way these are the only vessels that convey the blood from the  external to the central parts; which done, I conceive that the three  fundamental propositions laid down for the circulation of the blood will  be so plain, so well established, so obviously true, that they may  claim general credence. Now the remaining position will be made  sufficiently clear from the valves which are found in the cavities of  the veins themselves, from the uses of these, and from experiments  cognisable by the senses.

The celebrated Hieronymus Fabricius of Aquapendente, a most skilful  anatomist, and venerable old man, or, as the learned Riolan will have  it, Jacobus Silvius, first gave representations of the valves in the  veins, which consist of raised or loose portions of the inner membranes  of these vessels, of extreme delicacy, and a sigmoid or semilunar shape.  They are situated at different distances from one another, and  diversely in different individuals; they are connate at the sides of the  veins; they are directed upwards towards the trunks of the veins; the  two — for there are for the most part two together — regard each other,  mutually touch, and are so ready to come into contact by their edges,  that if anything attempts to pass from the trunks into the branches of  the veins, or from the greater vessels into the less, they completely  prevent it; they are farther so arranged, that the horns of those that  succeed are opposite the middle of the convexity of those that and so on  alternately.

The discoverer of these valves did not rightly understand their use, nor  have succeeding anatomists added anything to our knowledge: for their  office is by no means explained when we are told that it is to hinder  the blood, by its weight, from all flowing into inferior parts; for the  edges of the valves in the jugular veins hang downwards, and are so  contrived that they prevent the blood from rising upwards; the valves,  in a word, do not invariably look upwards, but always toward the trunks  of the veins, invariably towards the seat of the heart. I, and indeed  others, have sometimes found valves in the emulgent veins, and in those  of the mesentery, the edges of which were directed towards the vena cava  and vena portae. Let it be added that there are no valves in the  arteries, and that dogs, oxen, etc., have invariably valves at the  divisions of their crural veins, in the veins that meet towards the top  of the os sacrum, and in those branches which come from the haunches, in  which no such effect of gravity from the erect position was to be  apprehended. Neither are there valves in the jugular veins for the  purpose of guarding against apoplexy, as some have said; because in  sleep the head is more apt to be influenced by the contents of the  carotid arteries. Neither are the valves present, in order that the  blood may be retained in the divarications or smaller trunks and minuter  branches, and not be suffered to flow entirely into the more open and  capacious channels; for they occur where there are no divarications;  although it must be owned that they are most frequent at the points  where branches join. Neither do they exist for the purpose of rendering  the current of blood more slow from the centre of the body; for it seems  likely that the blood would be disposed to flow with sufficient  slowness of its own accord, as it would have to pass from larger into  continually smaller vessels, being separated from the mass and fountain  head, and attaining from warmer into colder places.

But the valves are solely made and instituted lest the blood should pass  from the greater into the lesser veins, and either rupture them or  cause them to become varicose; lest, instead of advancing from the  extreme to the central parts of the body, the blood should rather  proceed along the veins from the centre to the extremities; but the  delicate valves, while they readily open in the right direction,  entirely prevent all such contrary motion, being so situated and  arranged, that if anything escapes, or is less perfectly obstructed by  the cornua of the one above, the fluid passing, as it were, by the  chinks between the cornua, it is immediately received on the convexity  of the one beneath, which is placed transversely with reference to the  former, and so is effectually hindered from getting any farther.

And this I have frequently experienced in my dissections of the veins:  if I attempted to pass a probe from the trunk of the veins into one of  the smaller branches, whatever care I took I found it impossible to  introduce it far any way, by reason of the valves; whilst, on the  contrary, it was most easy to push it along in the opposite direction,  from without inwards, or from the branches towards the trunks and roots.  In many places two valves are so placed and fitted, that when raised  they come exactly together in the middle of the vein, and are there  united by the contact of their margins; and so accurate is the  adaptation, that neither by the eye nor by any other means of  examination, can the slightest chink along the line of contact be  perceived. But if the probe be now introduced from the extreme towards  the more central parts, the valves, like the floodgates of a river, give  way, and are most readily pushed aside. The effect of this arrangement  plainly is to prevent all motion of the blood from the heart and vena  cava, whether it be upwards towards the head, or downwards towards the  feet, or to either side towards the arms, not a drop can pass; all  motion of the blood, beginning; in the larger and tending towards the  smaller veins, is opposed and resisted by them; whilst the motion that  proceeds from the lesser to end in the larger branches is favoured, or,  at all events, a free and open passage is left for it.

figures 1-2

But that this truth may be made the more apparent, let an arm be tied up  above the elbow as if for phlebotomy (A, A, fig. 1). At intervals in  the course of the veins, especially in labouring people and those whose  veins are large, certain knots or elevations (B, C, D, E, F) will be  perceived, and this not only at the places where a branch is received  (E, F), but also where none enters (C, D): these knots or risings are  all formed by valves, which thus show themselves externally. And now if  you press the blood from the space above one of the valves, from H to O,  (fig. 2,) and keep the point of a finger upon the vein inferiorly, you  will see no influx of blood from above; the portion of the vein between  the point of the finger and the valve O will be obliterated; yet will  the vessel continue sufficiently distended above the valve (O, G). The  blood being thus pressed out and the vein emptied, if you now apply a  finger of the other hand upon the distended part of the vein above the  valve O, (fig. 3,) and press downwards, you will find that you cannot  force the blood through or beyond the valve; but the greater effort you  use, you will only see the portion of vein that is between the finger  and the valve become more distended, that portion of the vein which is  below the valve remaining all the while empty (H, O, fig. 3).

It would therefore appear that the function of the valves in the veins  is the same as that of the three sigmoid valves which we find at the  commencement of the aorta and pulmonary artery, viz., to prevent all  reflux of the blood that is passing over them.

figures 3-4

Farther, the arm being bound as before, and the veins looking full and  distended, if you press at one part in the course of a vein with the  point of a finger (L, fig. 4), and then with another finger streak the  blood upwards beyond the next valve (N), you will perceive that this  portion of the vein continues empty (L, N), and that the blood cannot  retrograde, precisely as we have already seen the case to be in fig. 2;  but the finger first applied (H, fig. 2, L, fig. 4), being removed,  immediately the vein is filled from below, and the arm becomes as it  appears at D C, fig. 1. That the blood in the veins therefore proceeds  from inferior or more remote parts, and towards the heart, moving in  these vessels in this and not in the contrary direction, appears most  obviously. And although in some places the valves, by not acting with  such perfect accuracy, or where there is but a single valve, do not seem  totally to prevent the passage of the blood from the centre, still the  greater number of them plainly do so; and then, where things appear  contrived more negligently, this is compensated either by the more  frequent occurrence or more perfect action of the succeeding valves, or  in some other way: the veins in short, as they are the free and open  conduits of the blood returning TO the heart, so are they effectually  prevented from serving as its channels of distribution FROM the heart.

But this other circumstance has to be noted: The arm being bound, and  the veins made turgid, and the valves prominent, as before, apply the  thumb or finger over a vein in the situation of one of the valves in  such a way as to compress it, and prevent any blood from passing upwards  from the hand; then, with a finger of the other hand, streak the blood  in the vein upwards till it has passed the next valve above (N, fig. 4),  the vessel now remains empty; but the finger at L being removed for an  instant, the vein is immediately filled from below; apply the finger  again, and having in the same manner streaked the blood upwards, again  remove the finger below, and again the vessel becomes distended as  before; and this repeat, say a thousand times, in a short space of time.  And now compute the quantity of blood which you have thus pressed up  beyond the valve, and then multiplying the assumed quantity by one  thousand, you will find that so much blood has passed through a certain  portion of the vessel; and I do now believe that you will find yourself  convinced of the circulation of the blood, and of its rapid motion. But  if in this experiment you say that a violence is done to nature, I do  not doubt but that, if you proceed in the same way, only taking as great  a length of vein as possible, and merely remark with what rapidity the  blood flows upwards, and fills the vessel from below, you will come to  the same conclusion.
Chapter XIV
Conclusion of the Demonstration of the Circulation

And now I may be allowed to give in brief my view of the circulation of the blood, and to propose it for general adoption.

Since all things, both argument and ocular demonstration, show that the  blood passes through the lungs, and heart by the force of the  ventricles, and is sent for distribution to all parts of the body, where  it makes its way into the veins and porosities of the flesh, and then  flows by the veins from the circumference on every side to the centre,  from the lesser to the greater veins, and is by them finally discharged  into the vena cava and right auricle of the heart, and this in such a  quantity or in such a flux and reflux thither by the arteries, hither by  the veins, as cannot possibly be supplied by the ingesta, and is much  greater than can be required for mere purposes of nutrition; it is  absolutely necessary to conclude that the blood in the animal body is  impelled in a circle, and is in a state of ceaseless motion; that this  is the act or function which the heart performs by means of its pulse;  and that it is the sole and only end of the motion and contraction of  the heart.
Chapter XV
The Circulation of the Blood is Further Confirmed by Probable Reasons

It will not be foreign to the subject if I here show further, from  certain familiar reasonings, that the circulation is matter both of  convenience and necessity. In the first place, since death is a  corruption which takes place through deficiency of heat, 11 and since  all living things are warm, all dying things cold, there must be a  particular seat and fountain, a kind of home and hearth, where the  cherisher of nature, the original of the native fire, is stored and  preserved; from which heat and life are dispensed to all parts as from a  fountain head; from which sustenance may be derived; and upon which  concoction and nutrition, and all vegetative energy may depend. Now,  that the heart is this place, that the heart is the principle of life,  and that all passes in the manner just mentioned, I trust no one will  deny.

The blood, therefore, required to have motion, and indeed such a motion  that it should return again to the heart; for sent to the external parts  of the body far from its fountain, as Aristotle says, and without  motion it would become congealed. For we see motion generating and  keeping up heat and spirits under ail circumstances, and rest allowing  them to escape and be dissipated. The blood, therefore, becoming thick  or congealed by the cold of the extreme and outward parts, and robbed of  its spirits, just as it is in the dead, it was imperative that from its  fount and origin, it should again receive heat and spirits, and all  else requisite to its preservation — that, by returning, it should be  renovated and restored.

We frequently see how the extremities are chilled by the external cold,  how the nose and cheeks and hands look blue, and how the blood,  stagnating in them as in the pendent or lower parts of a corpse, becomes  of a dusky hue; the limbs at the same time getting torpid, so that they  can scarcely be moved, and seem almost to have lost their vitality. Now  they can by no means be so effectually, and especially so speedily  restored to heat and colour and life, as by a new efflux and contact of  heat from its source. But how can parts attract in which the heat and  life are almost extinct? Or how should they whose passages are filled  with condensed and frigid blood, admit fresh aliment — renovated blood —  unless they had first got rid of their old contents? Unless the heart  were truly that fountain where life and heat are restored to the  refrigerated fluid, and whence new blood, warm, imbued with spirits,  being sent out by the arteries, that which has become cooled and effete  is forced on, and all the particles recover their heat which was  failing, and their vital stimulus wellnigh exhausted.

Hence it is that if the heart be unaffected, life and health may be  restored to almost all the other parts of the body; but if the heart be  chilled, or smitten with any serious disease, it seems matter of  necessity that the whole animal fabric should suffer and fall into  decay. When the source is corrupted, there is nothing, as Aristotle  says,12 which can be of service either to it or aught that depends on  it. And hence, by the way, it may perchance be why grief, and love, and  envy, and anxiety, and all affections of the mind of a similar kind are  accompanied with emaciation and decay, or with disordered fluids and  crudity, which engender all manner of diseases and consume the body of  man. For every affection of the mind that is attended with either pain  or pleasure, hope or fear, is the cause of an agitation whose influence  extends to the heart, and there induces change from the natural  constitution, in the temperature, the pulse and the rest, which  impairing all nutrition in its source and abating the powers at large,  it is no wonder that various forms of incurable disease in the  extremities and in the trunk are the consequence, inasmuch as in such  circumstances the whole body labours under the effects of vitiated  nutrition and a want of native heat.

Moreover, when we see that all animals live through food digested in  their interior, it is imperative that the digestion and distribution be  perfect, and, as a consequence, that there be a place and receptacle  where the aliment is perfected and whence it is distributed to the  several members. Now this place is the heart, for it is the only organ  in the body which contains blood for the general use; all the others  receive it merely for their peculiar or private advantage, just as the  heart also has a supply for its own especial behoof in its coronary  veins and arteries. But it is of the store which the heart contains in  its auricles and ventricles that I here speak. Then the heart is the  only organ which is so situated and constituted that it can distribute  the blood in due proportion to the several parts of the body, the  quantity sent to each being according to the dimensions of the artery  which supplies it, the heart serving as a magazine or fountain ready to  meet its demands.

Further, a certain impulse or force, as well as an impeller or forcer,  such as the heart, was required to effect this distribution and motion  of the blood; both because the blood is disposed from slight causes,  such as cold, alarm, horror, and the like, to collect in its source, to  concentrate like parts to a whole, or the drops of water spilt upon a  table to the mass of liquid; and because it is forced from the capillary  veins into the smaller ramifications, and from these into the larger  trunks by the motion of the extremities and the compression of the  muscles generally. The blood is thus more disposed to move from the  circumference to the centre than in the opposite direction, even were  there no valves to oppose its motion; wherefore, that it may leave its  source and enter more confined and colder channels, and flow against the  direction to which it spontaneously inclines, the blood requires both  force and impelling power. Now such is the heart and the heart alone,  and that in the way and manner already explained.
Chapter XVI
The Circulation of the Blood is Further Proved from Certain Consequences

There are still certain problems, which, taken as consequences of this  truth assumed as proven, are not without their use in exciting belief,  as it were, a posteriore; and which, although they may seem to be  involved in much doubt and obscurity, nevertheless readily admit of  having reasons and causes assigned for them. Of such a nature are those  that present themselves in connexion with contagions, poisoned wounds,  the bites of serpents and rabid animals, lues venerea and the like. We  sometimes see the whole system contaminated, though the part first  infected remains sound; the lues venerea has occasionally made its  attack with pains in the shoulders and head, and other symptoms, the  genital organs being all the while unaffected; and then we know that the  wound made by a rabid dog having healed, fever and a train of  disastrous symptoms may nevertheless supervene. Whence it appears that  the contagion impressed upon or deposited in a particular part, is  by-and-by carried by the returning current of blood to the heart, and by  that organ is sent to contaminate the whole body.

In tertian fever, the morbific cause seeking the heart in the first  instance, and hanging about the heart and lungs, renders the patient  short-winded, disposed to sighing, and indisposed to exertion, because  the vital principle is oppressed and the blood forced into the lungs and  rendered thick. It does not pass through them, (as I have myself seen  in opening the bodies of those who had died in the beginning of the  attack,) when the pulse is always frequent, small, and occasionally  irregular; but the heat increasing, the matter becoming attenuated, the  passages forced, and the transit made, the whole body begins to rise in  temperature, and the pulse becomes fuller and stronger. The febrile  paroxysm is fully formed, whilst the preternatural heat kindled in the  heart is thence diffused by the arteries through the whole body along  with the morbific matter, which is in this way overcome and dissolved by  nature.

When we perceive, further, that medicines applied externally exert their  influence on the body just as if they had been taken internally, the  truth we are contending for is confirmed. Colocynth and aloes in this  way move the belly, cantharides excites the urine, garlic applied to the  soles of the feet assists expectoration, cordials strengthen, and an  infinite number of examples of the same kind might be cited. Perhaps it  will not, therefore, be found unreasonable, if we say that the veins, by  means of their orifices, absorb some of the things that are applied  externally and carry this inwards with the blood, not otherwise, it may  be, than those of the mesentery imbibe the chyle from the intestines and  carry it mixed with the blood to the liver. For the blood entering the  mesentery by the coeliac artery, and the superior and inferior  mesenteries, proceeds to the intestines, from which, along with the  chyle that has been attracted into the veins, it returns by their  numerous ramifications into the vena portae of the liver, and from this  into the vena cava, and this in such wise that the blood in these veins  has the same colour and consistency as in other veins, in opposition to  what many believe to be the fact. Nor indeed can we imagine two contrary  motions in any capillary system — the chyle upwards, the blood  downwards. This could scarcely take place, and must be held as  altogether improbable. But is not the thing rather arranged as it is by  the consummate providence of nature? For were the chyle mingled with the  blood, the crude with the digested, in equal proportions, the result  would not be concoction, transmutation, and sanguification, but rather,  and because they are severally active and passive, a mixture or  combination, or medium compound of the two, precisely as happens when  wine is mixed with water and syrup. But when a very minute quantity of  chyle is mingled with a very large quantity of circulating blood, a  quantity of chyle that bears no kind of proportion to the mass of blood,  the effect is the same, as Aristotle says, as when a drop of water is  added to a cask of wine, or the contrary; the mass does not then present  itself as a mixture, but is still sensibly either wine or water.

So in the mesenteric veins of an animal we do not find either chyme or  chyle and blood, blended together or distinct, but only blood, the same  in colour, consistency, and other sensible properties, as it appears in  the veins generally. Still as there is a certain though small and  inappreciable portion of chyle or incompletely digested matter mingled  with the blood, nature has interposed the liver, in whose meandering  channels it suffers delay and undergoes additional change, lest arriving  prematurely and crude at the heart, it should oppress the vital  principle. Hence in the embryo, there is almost no use for the liver,  but the umbilical vein passes directly through, a foramen or an  anastomosis existing from the vena portae. The blood returns from the  intestines of the foetus, not through the liver, but into the umbilical  vein mentioned, and flows at once into the heart, mingled with the  natural blood which is returning from the placenta; whence also it is  that in the development of the foetus the liver is one of the organs  that is last formed. I have observed all the members, perfectly marked  out in the human foetus, even the genital organs, whilst there was yet  scarcely any trace of the liver. And indeed at the period when all the  parts, like the heart itself in the beginning, are still white, and  except in the veins there is no appearance of redness, you shall see  nothing in the seat of the liver but a shapeless collection, as it were,  of extravasated blood, which you might take for the effects of a  contusion or ruptured vein.

But in the incubated egg there are, as it were, two umbilical vessels,  one from the albumen passing entire through the liver, and going  straight to the heart; another from the yelk, ending in the vena portae;  for it appears that the chick, in the first instance, is entirely  formed and nourished by the white; but by the yelk after it has come to  perfection and is excluded from the shell; for this part may still be  found in the abdomen of the chick many days after its exclusion, and is a  substitute for the milk to other animals.

But these matters will be better spoken of in my observations on the  formation of the foetus, where many propositions, the following among  the number, will be discussed: Wherefore is this part formed or  perfected first, that last, and of the several members, what part is the  cause of another? And there are many points having special reference to  the heart, such as wherefore does it first acquire consistency, and  appear to possess life, motion, sense, before any other part of the body  is perfected, as Aristotle says in his third book, “De partibus  Animalium”? And so also of the blood, wherefore does it precede all the  rest? And in what way does it possess the vital and animal principle,  and show a tendency to motion, and to be impelled hither and thither,  the end for which the heart appears to be made? In the same way, in  considering the pulse, why should one kind of pulse indicate death,  another recovery? And so of all the other kinds of pulse, what may be  the cause and indication of each? Likewise we must consider the reason  of crises and natural critical discharges; of nutrition, and especially  the distribution of the nutriment; and of defluxions of every  description. Finally, reflecting on every part of medicine, physiology,  pathology, semeiotics and therapeutics, when I see how many questions  can be answered, how many doubts resolved, how much obscurity  illustrated by the truth we have declared, the light we have made to  shine, I see a field of such vast extent in which I might proceed so  far, and expatiate so widely, that this my tractate would not only swell  out into a volume, which was beyond my purpose, but my whole life,  perchance, would not suffice for its completion.

In this place, therefore, and that indeed in a single chapter, I shall  only endeavour to refer the various particulars that present themselves  in the dissection of the heart and arteries to their several uses and  causes; for so I shall meet with many things which receive light from  the truth I have been contending for, and which, in their turn, render  it more obvious. And indeed I would have it confirmed and illustrated by  anatomical arguments above all others.

There is but a single point which indeed would be more correctly placed  among our observations on the use of the spleen, but which it will not  be altogether impertinent to notice in this place incidentally. From the  splenic branch which passes into the pancreas, and from the upper part,  arise the posterior coronary, gastric, and gastroepiploic veins, all of  which are distributed upon the stomach in numerous branches and twigs,  just as the mesenteric vessels are upon the intestines. In a similar  way, from the inferior part of the same splenic branch, and along the  back of the colon and rectum proceed the hemorrhoidal veins. The blood  returning by these veins, and bringing the cruder juices along with it,  on the one hand from the stomach, where they are thin, watery, and not  yet perfectly chylified; on the other thick and more earthy, as derived  from the faeces, but all poured into this splenic branch, are duly  tempered by the admixture of contraries; and nature mingling together  these two kinds of juices, difficult of coction by reason of most  opposite defects, and then diluting them with a large quantity of warm  blood, (for we see that the quantity returned from the spleen must be  very large when we contemplate the size of its arteries,) they are  brought to the porta of the liver in a state of higher preparation. The  defects of either extreme are supplied and compensated by this  arrangement of the veins.
Chapter XVII
The Motion and Circulation of the Blood are Confirmed from the  Particulars Apparent in the Structure of the Heart, and From Those  Things which Dissection Unfolds

I do not find the heart as a distinct and separate part in all animals;  some, indeed, such as the zoophytes, have no heart; this is because  these animals are coldest, of one great bulk, of soft texture, or of a  certain uniform sameness or simplicity of structure; among the number I  may instance grubs and earth-worms, and those that are engendered of  putrefaction and do not preserve their species. These have no heart, as  not requiring any impeller of nourishment into the extreme parts; for  they have bodies which are connate and homogeneous and without limbs; so  that by the contraction and relaxation of the whole body they assume  and expel, move and remove, the aliment. Oysters, mussels, sponges, and  the whole genus of zoophytes or plant-animals have no heart, for the  whole body is used as a heart, or the whole animal is a heart. In a  great number of animals — almost the whole tribe of insects — we cannot  see distinctly by reason of the smallness of the body; still in bees,  flies, hornets, and the like we can perceive something pulsating with  the help of a magnifying-glass; in pediculi, also, the same thing may be  seen, and as the body is transparent, the passage of the food through  the intestines, like a black spot or stain, may be perceived by the aid  of the same magnifying-glass.

But in some of the pale-blooded and colder animals, as in snails,  whelks, shrimps, and shell-fish, there is a part which pulsates, — a  kind of vesicle or auricle without a heart — slowly, indeed, and not to  be perceived except in the warmer season of the year. In these creatures  this part is so contrived that it shall pulsate, as there is here a  necessity for some impulse to distribute the nutritive fluid, by reason  of the variety of organic parts, or of the density of the substance; but  the pulsations occur unfrequently, and sometimes in consequence of the  cold not at all, an arrangement the best adapted to them as being of a  doubtful nature, so that sometimes they appear to live, sometimes to  die; sometimes they show the vitality of an animal, sometimes of a  vegetable. This seems also to be the case with the insects which conceal  themselves in winter, and lie, as it were, defunct, or merely  manifesting a kind of vegetative existence. But whether the same thing  happens in the case of certain animals that have red blood, such as  frogs, tortoises, serpents, swallows, may be very properly doubted.

In all the larger and warmer animals which have red blood, there was  need of an impeller of the nutritive fluid, and that, perchance,  possessing a considerable amount of power. In fishes, serpents, lizards,  tortoises, frogs, and others of the same kind there is a heart present,  furnished with both an auricle and a ventricle, whence it is perfectly  true, as Aristotle has observed, 13 that no sanguineous animal is  without a heart, by the impelling power of which the nutritive fluid is  forced, both with greater vigour and rapidity, to a greater distance;  and not merely agitated by an auricle, as it Is in lower forms. And then  in regard to animals that are yet larger, warmer, and more perfect, as  they abound in blood, which is always hotter and more spirituous, and  which possess bodies of greater size and consistency, these require a  larger, stronger, and more fleshy heart, in order that the nutritive  fluid may be propelled with yet greater force and celerity. And further,  inasmuch as the more perfect animals require a still more perfect  nutrition, and a larger supply of native heat, in order that the aliment  may be thoroughly concocted and acquire the last degree of perfection,  they required both lungs and a second ventricle, which should force the  nutritive fluid through them.

Every animal that has lungs has, therefore, two ventricles to its heart —  one right, the other left; and wherever there is a right, there also is  there a left ventricle; but the contrary of this does not hold good:  where there is a left there is not always a right ventricle. The left  ventricle I call that which is distinct in office, not in place from the  other, that one, namely, which distributes the blood to the body at  large, not to the lungs only. Hence the left ventricle seems to form the  principle part of the heart; situated in the middle, more strongly  marked, and constructed with greater care, the heart seems formed for  the sake of the left ventricle, and the right but to minister to it. The  right neither reaches to the apex of the heart nor is it nearly of such  strength, being three times thinner in its walls, and in some sort  jointed on to the left (as Aristotle says), though, indeed, it is of  greater capacity, inasmuch as it has not only to supply material to the  left ventricle, but likewise to furnish aliment to the lungs.

It is to be observed, however, that all this is otherwise in the embryo,  where there is not such a difference between the two ventricles. There,  as in a double nut, they are nearly equal in all respects, the apex of  the right reaching to the apex of the left, so that the heart presents  itself as a sort of double-pointed cone. And this is so, because in the  foetus, as already said, whilst the blood is not passing through the  lungs from the right to the left cavities of the heart, it flows by the  foramen ovale and ductus arteriosus directly from the vena cava into the  aorta, whence it is distributed to the whole body. Both ventricles  have, therefore, the same office to perform, whence their equality of  constitution. It is only when the lungs come to be used and it is  requisite that the passages indicated should be blocked up that the  difference in point of strength and other things between the two  ventricles begins to be apparent. In the altered circumstances the right  has only to drive the blood through the lungs, whilst the left has to  propel it through the whole body.

There are, moreover, within the heart numerous braces, in the form of  fleshy columns and fibrous bands, which Aristotle, in his third book on  “Respiration,” and the “Parts of Animals,” entitles nerves. These are  variously extended, and are either distinct or contained in grooves in  the walls and partition, where they occasion numerous pits or  depressions. They constitute a kind of small muscles, which are  superadded and supplementary to the heart, assisting it to execute a  more powerful and perfect contraction, and so proving subservient to the  complete expulsion of the blood. They are, in some sort, like the  elaborate and artful arrangement of ropes in a ship, bracing the heart  on every side as it contracts, and so enabling it more effectually and  forcibly to expel the charge of blood from its ventricles. This much is  plain, at all events, that in some animals they are less strongly marked  than in others; and, in all that have them, they are more numerous and  stronger in the left than in the right ventricle; and while some have  them present in the left, yet they are absent in the right ventricle. In  man they are more numerous in the left than in the right ventricle,  more abundant in the ventricles than in the auricles; and occasionally  there appear to be none present in the auricles. They are numerous in  the large, more muscular and hardier bodies of countrymen, but fewer in  more slender frames and in females.

In those animals in which the ventricles of the heart are smooth within  and entirely without fibres of muscular bands, or anything like hollow  pits, as in almost all the smaller birds, the partridge and the common  fowl, serpents, frogs, tortoises, and most fishes, there are no chordae  tendineae, nor bundles of fibres, neither are there any tricuspid valves  in the ventricles.

Some animals have the right ventricle smooth internally, but the left  provided with fibrous bands, such as the goose, swan, and larger birds;  and the reason is the same here as elsewhere. As the lungs are spongy  and loose and soft, no great amount of force is required to force the  blood through them; therefore the right ventricle is either without the  bundles in question, or they are fewer and weaker, and not so fleshy or  like muscles. Those of the left ventricle, however, are both stronger  and more numerous, more fleshy and muscular, because the left ventricle  requires to be stronger, inasmuch as the blood which it propels has to  be driven through the whole body. And this, too, is the reason why the  left ventricle occupies the middle of the heart, and has parietes three  times thicker and stronger than those of the right Hence all animals —  and among men it is similar — that are endowed with particularly strong  frames, and with large and fleshy limbs at a great distance from the  heart, have this central organ of greater thickness, strength, and  muscularity. This is manifest and necessary. Those, on the contrary,  that are of softer and more slender make have the heart more flaccid,  softer, and internally either less or not at all fibrous. Consider,  farther, the use of the several valves, which are all so arranged that  the blood, once received into the ventricles of the heart, shall never  regurgitate; once forced into the pulmonary artery and aorta, shall not  flow back upon the ventricles. When the valves are raised and brought  together, they form a three-cornered line, such as is left by the bite  of a leech; and the more they are forced, the more firmly do they oppose  the passage of the blood. The tricuspid valves are placed, like  gate-keepers, at the entrance into the ventricles from the venae cavae  and pulmonary veins, lest the blood when most forcibly impelled should  flow back. It is for this reason that they are not found in all animals,  nor do they appear to have been constructed with equal care, in all  animals in which they are found. In some they are more accurately  fitted, in others more remissly or carelessly contrived, and always with  a view to their being closed under a greater or a slighter force of the  ventricle. In the left ventricle, therefore, in order that the  occlusion may be the more perfect against the greater impulse, there are  only two valves, like a mitre, and produced into an elongated cone, so  that they come together and touch to their middle; a circumstance which  perhaps led Aristotle into the error of supposing this ventricle to be  double, the division taking place transversely. For the same reason, and  that the blood may not regurgitate upon the pulmonary veins, and thus  the force of the ventricle in propelling the blood through the system at  large come to be neutralized, it is that these mitral valves excel  those of the right ventricle in size and strength and exactness of  closing. Hence it is essential that there can be no heart without a  ventricle, since this must be the source and store-house of the blood.  The same law does not hold good in reference to the brain. For almost no  genus of birds has a ventricle in the brain, as is obvious in the goose  and swan, the brains of which nearly equal that of a rabbit in size;  now rabbits have ventricles in the brain, whilst the goose has none. In  like manner, wherever the heart has a single ventricle, there is an  auricle appended, flaccid, membranous, hollow, filled with blood; and  where there are two ventricles, there are likewise two auricles. On the  other hand, some animals have an auricle without any ventricle; or, at  all events, they have a sac analogous to an auricle; or the vein itself,  dilated at a particular part, performs pulsations, as is seen in  hornets, bees, and other insects, which certain experiments of my own  enable me to demonstrate, have not only a pulse, but a respiration in  that part which is called the tail, whence it is that this part is  elongated and contracted now more rarely, now more frequently, as the  creature appears to be blown and to require a large quantity of air. But  of these things, more in our “Treatise On Respiration.”

It is in like manner evident that the auricles pulsate, contract, as I  have said before, and throw the blood into the ventricles; so that  wherever there is a ventricle, an auricle is necessary, not merely that  it may serve, according to the general belief, as a source and magazine  for the blood: for what were the use of its pulsations had it only to  contain?

The auricles are prime movers of the blood, especially the right  auricle, which, as already said, is “the first to live, the last to  die”; whence they are subservient to sending the blood into the  ventricles, which, contracting continuously, more readily and forcibly  expel the blood already in motion; just as the ball-player can strike  the ball more forcibly and further if he takes it on the rebound than if  he simply threw it. Moreover, and contrary to the general opinion,  neither the heart nor anything else can dilate or distend itself so as  to draw anything into its cavity during the diastole, unless, like a  sponge, it has been first compressed and is returning to its primary  condition. But in animals all local motion proceeds from, and has its  origin in, the contraction of some part; consequently it is by the  contraction of the auricles that the blood is thrown into the  ventricles, as I have already shown, and from there, by the contraction  of the ventricles, it is propelled and distributed. Concerning local  motions, it is true that the immediate moving organ in every motion of  an animal primarily endowed with a motive spirit (as Aristotle has it14)  is contractile; in which way the word veopou is derived from veuw,  nuto, contraho; and if I am permitted to proceed in my purpose of making  a particular demonstration of the organs of motion in animals from  observations in my possession, I trust I shall be able to make  sufficiently plain how Aristotle was acquainted with the muscles, and  advisedly referred all motion in animals to the nerves, or to the  contractile element, and, therefore, called those little bands in the  heart nerves.

But that we may proceed with the subject which we have in hand, viz.,  the use of the auricles in filling the ventricles, we should expect that  the more dense and compact the heart, the thicker its parietes, the  stronger and more muscular must be the auricle to force and fill it, and  vice versa. Now this is actually so: in some the auricle presents  itself as a sanguinolent vesicle, as a thin membrane containing blood,  as in fishes, in which the sac that stands in lieu of the auricles is of  such delicacy and ample capacity that it seems to be suspended or to  float above the heart. In those fishes in which the sac is somewhat more  fleshy, as in the carp, barbel, tench, and others, it bears a wonderful  and strong resemblance to the lungs.

In some men of sturdier frame and stouter make the right auricle is so  strong, and so curiously constructed on its inner surface of bands and  variously interlacing fibres, that it seems to equal in strength the  ventricle of the heart in other subjects; and I must say that I am  astonished to find such diversity in this particular in different  individuals. It is to be observed, however, that in the foetus the  auricles are out of all proportion large, which is because they are  present before the heart makes its appearance or suffices for its office  even when it has appeared, and they, therefore, have, as it were, the  duty of the whole heart committed to them, as has already been  demonstrated. But what I have observed in the formation of the foetus,  as before remarked (and Aristotle had already confirmed all in studying  the incubated egg), throws the greatest light and likelihood upon the  point. Whilst the foetus is yet in the form of a soft worm, or, as is  commonly said, in the milk, there is a mere bloody point or pulsating  vesicle, a portion apparently of the umbilical vein, dilated at its  commencement or base. Afterwards, when the outline of the foetus is  distinctly indicated and it begins to have greater bodily consistence,  the vesicle in question becomes more fleshy and stronger, changes its  position, and passes into the auricles, above which the body of the  heart begins to sprout, though as yet it apparently performs no office.  When the foetus is farther advanced, when the bones can be distinguished  from the fleshy parts and movements take place, then it also has a  heart which pulsates, and, as I have said, throws blood by either  ventricle from the vena cava into the arteries.

Thus nature, ever perfect and divine, doing nothing in vain, has neither  given a heart where it was not required, nor produced it before its  office had become necessary; but by the same stages in the development  of every animal, passing through the forms of all, as I may say (ovum,  worm, foetus), it acquires perfection in each. These points will be  found elsewhere confirmed by numerous observations on the formation of  the foetus.

Finally, it is not without good grounds that Hippocrates in his book,  “De Corde,” entitles it a muscle; its action is the same; so is its  functions, viz., to contract and move something else — in this case the  charge of the blood.

Farther, we can infer the action and use of the heart from the  arrangement of its fibres and its general structures, as in muscles  generally. All anatomists admit with Galen that the body of the heart is  made up of various courses of fibres running straight, obliquely, and  transversely, with reference to one another; but in a heart which has  been boiled, the arrangement of the fibres is seen to be different. All  the fibres in the parietes and septum are circular, as in the  sphincters; those, again, which are in the columns extend lengthwise,  and are oblique longitudinally; and so it comes to pass that when all  the fibres contract simultaneously, the apex of the cone is pulled  towards its base by the columns, the walls are drawn circularly together  into a globe — the whole heart, in short, is contracted and the  ventricles narrowed. It is, therefore, impossible not to perceive that,  as the action of the organ is so plainly contraction, its function is to  propel the blood into the arteries.

Nor are we the less to agree with Aristotle in regard to the importance  of the heart, or to question if it receives sense and motion from the  brain, blood from the liver, or whether it be the origin of the veins  and of the blood, and such like. They who affirm these propositions  overlook, or do not rightly understand, the principal argument, to the  effect that the heart is the first part which exists, and that it  contains within itself blood, life, sensation, and motion, before either  the brain or the liver were created or had appeared distinctly, or, at  all events, before they could perform any function. The heart, ready  furnished with its proper organs of motion, like a kind of internal  creature, existed before the body. The first to be formed, nature willed  that it should afterwards fashion, nourish, preserve, complete the  entire animal, as its work and dwelling-place: and as the prince in a  kingdom, in whose hands lie the chief and highest authority, rules over  all, the heart is the source and foundation from which all power is  derived, on which all power depends in the animal body.

Many things having reference to the arteries farther illustrate and  confirm this truth. Why does not the pulmonary vein pulsate, seeing that  it is numbered among the arteries? Or wherefore is there a pulse in the  pulmonary artery? Because the pulse of the arteries is derived from the  impulse of the blood. Why does an artery differ so much from a vein in  the thickness and strength of its coats? Because it sustains the shock  of the impelling heart and streaming blood. Hence, as perfect nature  does nothing in vain, and suffices under all circumstances, we find that  the nearer the arteries are to the heart, the more do they differ from  the veins in structure; here they are both stronger and more  ligamentous, whilst in extreme parts of the body, such as the feet and  hands, the brain, the mesentery, and the testicles, the two orders of  vessels are so much alike that it is impossible to distinguish between  them with the eye. Now this is for the following very sufficient  reasons: the more remote the vessels are from the heart, with so much  the less force are they distended by the stroke of the heart, which is  broken by the great distance at which it is given. Add to this that the  impulse of the heart exerted upon the mass of blood, which must needs  fill the trunks and branches of the arteries, is diverted, divided, as  it were, and diminished at every subdivision, so that the ultimate  capillary divisions of the arteries look like veins, and this not merely  in constitution, but in function. They have either no perceptible  pulse, or they rarely exhibit one, and never except where the heart  beats more violently than usual, or at a part where the minute vessel is  more dilated or open than elsewhere. It, therefore, happens that at  times we are aware of a pulse in the teeth, in inflammatory tumours, and  in the fingers; at another time we feel nothing of the sort. By this  single symptom I have ascertained for certain that young persons whose  pulses are naturally rapid were labouring under fever; and in like  manner, on compressing the fingers in youthful and delicate subjects  during a febrile paroxysm, I have readily perceived the pulse there. On  the other hand, when the heart pulsates more languidly, it is often  impossible to feel the pulse not merely in the fingers, but the wrist,  and even at the temple, as in persons afflicted with lipothymiae  asphyxia, or hysterical symptoms, and in the debilitated and moribund.

Here surgeons are to be advised that, when the blood escapes with force  in the amputation of limbs, in the removal of tumours, and in wounds, it  constantly comes from an artery; not always indeed per saltum, because  the smaller arteries do not pulsate, especially if a tourniquet has been  applied.

For the same reason the pulmonary artery not only has the structure of  an artery, but it does not differ so widely from the veins in the  thickness of its walls as does the aorta. The aorta sustains a more  powerful shock from the left than the pulmonary artery does from the  right ventricle, and the walls of this last vessel are thinner and  softer than those of the aorta in the same proportion as the walls of  the right ventricle of the heart are weaker and thinner than those of  the left ventricle. In like manner the lungs are softer and laxer in  structure than the flesh and other constituents of the body, and in a  similar way the walls of the branches of the pulmonary artery differ  from those of the vessels derived from the aorta. And the same  proportion in these particulars is universally preserved. The more  muscular and powerful men are, the firmer their flesh; the stronger,  thicker, denser, and more fibrous their hearts, the thicker, closer, and  stronger are the auricles and arteries. Again, in those animals the  ventricles of whose hearts are smooth on their inner surface, without  villi or valves, and the walls of which are thin, as in fishes,  serpents, birds, and very many genera of animals, the arteries differ  little or nothing in the thickness of their coats from the veins.

Moreover, the reason why the lungs have such ample vessels, both  arteries and veins (for the capacity of the pulmonary veins exceeds that  of both crural and jugular vessels), and why they contain so large a  quantity of blood, as by experience and ocular inspection we know they  do, admonished of the fact indeed by Aristotle, and not led into error  by the appearances found in animals which have been bled to death, is,  because the blood has its fountain, and storehouse, and the workshop of  its last perfection, in the heart and lungs. Why, in the same way, we  find in the course of our anatomical dissections the pulmonary vein and  left ventricle so full of blood, of the same black colour and clotted  character as that with which the right ventricle and pulmonary artery  are filled, is because the blood is incessantly passing from one side of  the heart to the other through the lungs. Wherefore, in fine, the  pulmonary artery has the structure of an artery, and the pulmonary veins  have the structure of veins. In function and constitution and  everything else the first is an artery, the others are veins, contrary  to what is commonly believed; and the reason why the pulmonary artery  has so large an orifice is because it transports much more blood than is  requisite for the nutrition of the lungs.

All these appearances, and many others, to be noted in the course of  dissection, if rightly weighed, seem clearly to illustrate and fully to  confirm the truth contended for throughout these pages, and at the same  time to oppose the vulgar opinion; for it would be very difficult to  explain in any other way to what purpose all is constructed and arranged  as we have seen it to be.

The End
