INTRODUCTION
IF the English are singularly incurious about their Navy, that attitude must not be thought to imply neglect. On the contrary, it is a blend of admiration, respect, and, above all, confidence, induced very largely by the Navy itself. For so long has the Navy minded its own silent business that we—otherwise so inquisitive a people—have come to look upon it as beyond examination and (normally too eager to cut open the drum and explore its resources) trustfully to leave it to its own devices, conscious that those devices are wholly in our own interests. As Matthew Arnold said in his sonnet to Shakespeare:

Others abide our question, thou art free—

so do we address the Navy. For, although it baffles curiosity and ends by eliminating it, it is only to substitute faith. We do not take for granted all the things that we cannot understand: sometimes, indeed, we deny them; but we are satisfied to take for granted the Navy. We know that it is there. Where "there" is we may have no notion; by "there" we mean probably everywhere. The Navy is not only there, the Navy is everywhere, and therefore all's well. That is our simple creed.

A further cause for this quiet and unusual acceptivity is to be found in the medium in which the Navy works—the sea itself. The sea has ever been a barrier to investigation, and the Navy and the sea are one. Public opinion is land-made, and landsmen have neither time nor inclination to cope with the riddles of the ocean, which to most of us is vague and inimical, the home of risks and discomforts which it is wiser to avoid. Well content to consider her, from a safe distance, as a Sphinx, we are very happy that to others has fallen the perilous lot of patrolling her and very full of gratitude for their courage and success.

If the Army, on the contrary, is so much under the microscope, it is largely because it has few or no mysteries. We know the rules. Armies are made up of men like ourselves (only better). They advance as we do, by putting one foot before another, on the solid earth. Their movements are followable, even if we cannot always understand them; daily bulletins are printed in the public Press. But the Navy keeps its secrets. Not only have we no notion where it is, but we should be little the wiser as to its inner purposes if, scanning the illimitable and capricious waves, it should be our fortune to descry here and there a flotilla of its dark grey hulls. Even in harbour most men pointing out a cruiser to their children say "That's a dreadnought"—a state of confusion bred and fostered by the strange, dark, dangerous element in which the Navy has its being.

So much for the causes of our odd willingness to forego one of the chief privileges of British birthright, which is to criticise, even to belittling, all that is ours. But there is justification, too, as the state of the sea to-day testifies. Thanks to the Navy there is at this moment hardly an enemy ship at large on the surface of the waters. The Kaiser's darling ironclads are idle as painted ships upon a painted ocean: not even an ocean, a canal. Our troops in millions have crossed to the Continent. We have enough to eat.

By what wonders of efficiency and discipline, machinery and co-ordination, this result has been brought about we neither know nor are concerned to enquire. Enough that it is. But when it comes to personnel, curiosity is legitimate; and this collection of portraits and brief biographies has been prepared in the belief that very many of those whose lives have been rendered secure by these efforts of the Navy would like to see what manner of men are in control of our safeguards. This is the heyday of the picture, and here are the pictures of our leading sailors—the commanders who stand between us and the foe and keep the foe at bay.

Charles Lamb (who was less of a sea-dog even than most men) confessed in old age that he once sat to an artist friend for the portraits of sixteen British Admirals. Mr. Dodd (even could a sitter of such notable companionableness be now found) would have forced himself to dispense with the fun of using him, for verisimilitude's sake, because all these heads have been drawn from life and are reproduced as nearly as possible in the colours of life. Looking over the forty and more Naval heroes whom he has limned, one is struck by a generic likeness which is deeper than such superficial similarity as the service beard can confer. Most of the Admirals look like Admirals—and is there a better thing to be? Certainly there is no better word. Not only have their ability and courage and character united to lift them to high position and authority; but here, again, we discern the subtle and penetrating influence of the sea, a mistress who will allow no relaxation of vigilance or toil, so swiftly and dangerously changeable can she be. Hence the keen eyes, the level gaze, of all who would understand and cope with her, and noticeably of all this gallant company.

In the present work the emphasis is laid rather upon the illustrations than the letterpress. It is a gallery of portraits rather than a series of biographies such as "The Lives of the British Admirals," which was written by Dr. John Campbell, and, with periodical additions, so long held the field. The time for such biographies happily is not yet. But when it comes may there be some victories (already, of course, there are three or four) to record as decisive and as noble as those in Campbell's volumes!
E. V. LUCAS. 
I ADMIRAL SIR JOHN R. JELLICOE, G.C.B., O.M., G.C.V.O.
ADMIRAL SIR JOHN RUSHWORTH JELLICOE, G.C.B., O.M., G.C.V.O., was born on December 5th, 1859. He was educated at Rottingdean, and entered the Navy in 1872, becoming in 1880 a Lieutenant (three First Class Certificates). As a young officer he specialised in Gunnery.

During the Egyptian War, as Lieutenant of the "Agincourt," he gained the Egyptian Medal and Khedive's Bronze Star. In 1883 he received a special ￡80 prize at the Royal Naval College.

In May, 1886, Lieutenant Jellicoe was awarded the Board of Trade Silver Medal for having commanded a gig, manned by volunteers, which set out to rescue the crew of a steamer stranded on a sandbank near Gibraltar. A heavy sea was running and the boat capsized, but the crew, being provided with cork jackets, managed to reach the shore in safety.

Lieutenant Jellicoe was Assistant to the Director of Naval Ordnance from 1888 to 1891, on June 30th of which year he became a Commander, and was serving in the "Victoria" when she foundered off Tripoli after collision with the "Camperdown" on June 27th, 1893. At the time of the catastrophe Commander Jellicoe was suffering from Mediterranean fever. He was promoted to Captain on January 1st, 1897. During the Boxer outbreak in 1900 he was Flag-Captain in the "Centurion," and took part in Admiral Sir E. H. Seymour's International Expedition to relieve the Pekin Legations. In this Expedition he acted as Chief Staff Officer, was wounded, and afterwards received the C.B. for his services.

He was Naval Assistant to the Controller of the Navy from February, 1902, to August, 1903; Captain of the "Drake" from August, 1903, to January, 1905; and Director of Naval Ordnance and Torpedoes from 1905 to August, 1907. In the previous March he had been made Aide-de-Camp to the King, a post which he held until February 8th, 1907, when he became an Admiral. From August, 1907, to August, 1908, he was Rear-Admiral in the Atlantic Fleet, becoming Third Sea Lord and Controller of the Navy at the end of 1908. He commanded the Atlantic Fleet in 1910, with the rank of Acting Vice-Admiral, and on the occasion of King George V.'s Coronation he was made a K.C.B. In 1911 he commanded the Second Division of the Home Fleet, becoming a Vice-Admiral on September 18th of that year. On December 9th, 1912, he was appointed Second Sea Lord.

On the outbreak of war on August 4th, 1914, he was given Chief Command of the Grand Fleet, with the acting rank of Admiral. He was in supreme command at the Battle of Jutland.

In recognition of his services during the war, he received the G.C.B. on February 8th, 1915, and an Order in Council, dated November 10th, 1914, laid down that "Admiral Jellicoe on his promotion to the rank of Admiral is to retain seniority as Admiral of August 4th, 1914, while holding his present command."

On May 31st, 1916, Admiral Jellicoe received the Order of Merit.

On December 4th, 1916, he became First Sea Lord, the title "Chief of Naval Staff" being added on May 31st, 1917.

Admiral Jellicoe holds the Grand Cross of the Legion of Honour, the Russian Order of St. George (Third Class), the Order of the First Class of the Rising Sun with Paulounia, and the Grand Cordon of the Order of Leopold, also the French and Belgian Croix de Guerre and the Grand Cross of the Military Order of Savoy.

No biographical notice of Sir John Jellicoe would be complete without a mention of his father, who was, in his day, a well-known and distinguished Captain in the Merchant Service. It is pleasant to remember that Captain Jellicoe lived to see his son in command of the Grand Fleet during the greatest war in history. This close connection between the two branches of sea service is also peculiarly happy and appropriate. Admiral Patton, a great-grandfather on his mother's side, was Second Sea Lord during the Trafalgar campaign.
II ADMIRAL SIR CECIL BURNEY, G.C.M.G., K.C.B.
ADMIRAL SIR CECIL BURNEY, G.C.M.G., K.C.B., was born in 1858 and received his education at the Royal Naval Academy, Gosport; he served as a Lieutenant of the "Carysfoot" during the Egyptian war, and also in the Naval and military operations near Suakin in the Eastern Soudan. For these services he received the Egyptian Medal, Khedive's Bronze Star and Suakin Clasp.

As a Lieutenant of the "Hecate" Admiral Burney performed a singularly gallant action. His ship having gone outside Plymouth Breakwater for gun trials, a carpenter's mate engaged in some work on the outside of a turret slipped overboard, striking his head as he fell. Lieutenant Burney and Mr. Berridge, gunner, at once plunged to the rescue and succeeded in supporting the man till one of the boats, which unfortunately were stowed inboard owing to gun practice, could be got ready to go to their assistance.

In 1906-7 Admiral Burney was Aide-de-Camp to King Edward VII. He was Rear-Admiral of Plymouth Home Fleet, 1909-10, a member of the Admiralty Submarine Committee, 1910-11; Rear-Admiral Commanding Fifth Cruiser Squadron, February, 1911; Acting Vice-Admiral Commanding Third Battle Squadron (formerly Atlantic Fleet), in December of the same year and Vice-Admiral in September, 1912.

In April, 1913, he became second in command in the Mediterranean and Senior Officer of the International Squadron ordered to blockade the coast of Montenegro, and in May of the same year he was appointed Chief to the Commission to administer the affairs of Scutari on behalf of the Powers.

Vice-Admiral Burney received the K.C.B. on King George's Birthday in 1913, and the K.C.M.G. in October of the same year, in which he also received the command of the Second and Third Fleets.

At the Battle of Jutland he was second in command of the Grand Fleet and was mentioned in despatches. He became a G.C.M.G. and Admiral in 1916, being decorated Grand Officer of the Legion of Honour for his war services in the same year. In 1916 he was also appointed Second Sea Lord of the Admiralty. He also holds the Order of St. Vladimir (Second Class) with swords, the Grand Cross of the Order of St. Maurice and St. Lazarus, and the Grand Cordon of the Order of the Rising Sun.

Admiral Burney retired from the post of Second Sea Lord in August, 1917, and in October was appointed Commander-in-Chief of the East Coast of Scotland in succession to the late Admiral Sir Frederick Hamilton.
III ADMIRAL SIR CHARLES EDWARD MADDEN, K.C.B., K.C.M.G., C.V.O.
ADMIRAL SIR CHARLES EDWARD MADDEN, K.C.B., K.C.M.G., C.V.O., became a midshipman in October, 1877. As an Acting Sub-Lieutenant of H.M.S. "Ruby," he served in the Egyptian War of 1882 and received the Egyptian Medal and the Khedive's Bronze Star. He became a Lieutenant on July 27th, 1884.

As a young officer, Admiral Madden specialized in Torpedo work, and from 1893 to 1896 was First Lieutenant and Staff Officer of the "Vernon" torpedo school ship.

On June 30th of the latter year he became Commander and was promoted Captain on the same day of the same month in 1901.

From 1902 to 1904 Captain Madden was Flag Captain to Sir Wilmot Fawkes, commanding the Cruiser Squadron in H.M.S. "Good Hope."

On February 7th, 1905, Captain Madden was appointed Naval Assistant to the Controller of the Navy, becoming on December 20th of the following year Naval Assistant to the First Sea Lord.

On the occasion of King Edward's Review of the Home Fleet in the Solent on August 3rd, 1907, he received the C.V.O.

Nine days later Captain Madden became Captain of H.M.S. "Dreadnought," and Chief of Staff, Home Fleet.

On December 1st, 1908, he was appointed Private Secretary to the First Lord of the Admiralty, and from January 25th, 1910, to December, 1911, was Fourth Sea Lord; from January, 1910, to April 12th, 1911, when he was promoted to Rear-Admiral, Captain Madden was Aide-de-Camp to the King.

From January 5th, 1912, to December 11th of the same year, he was Rear-Admiral in the First Battle Squadron First Fleet, and from December, 1912, to December, 1913, he commanded the Third Cruiser Squadron. In the latter month he assumed the command of the Second Cruiser Squadron, which command he held till July, 1914.

On the outbreak of War Rear-Admiral Madden was appointed Chief of the Staff to Admiral Sir John Jellicoe, Commander-in-Chief of the Grand Fleet, and was specially granted the acting rank of Vice-Admiral on June 11th, 1915. He was present at the Battle of Jutland and was appointed a K.C.M.G. for his services on that occasion.

In his despatch, Admiral Sir John Jellicoe said of Vice-Admiral Madden, "Throughout a period of twenty-one months of war his services have been of inestimable value. His good judgment, his long experience in fleets, special gift for organization, and his capacity for unlimited work, have all been of the greatest assistance to me, and have relieved me of much of the anxiety inseparable from the conduct of the Fleet during the war. In the stages leading up to the Fleet action, and during and after the action, he was always at hand to assist, and his judgment was never at fault.

"I owe him more than I can say."

Vice-Admiral Madden was made a K.C.B. on January 1st, 1916, a K.C.M.G. on May 31st, and confirmed as a Vice-Admiral on June 10th of the same year. On November 28th, 1916, he was made an Acting-Admiral and appointed in command of a portion of the Grand Fleet.

He is a Commander of the Legion of Honour, a Commander of the Military Order of Savoy, holds the Russian Order of St. Anne (First Class), with Swords, and Japanese Order of the Rising Sun (First Class).
IV REAR-ADMIRAL RICHARD FORTESCUE PHILLIMORE, C.B., M.V.O.
REAR-ADMIRAL RICHARD FORTESCUE PHILLIMORE, C.B., M.V.O., entered the Navy in 1878, became a Lieutenant in 1886 and a Commander in 1899. He was Commander of the "Goliath" during the China War of 1900 (medal), and commanded H.M.S. "Mohawk" during the operations in Somaliland in 1904 (medal).

He commanded the machine guns of the Naval Brigade at the capture of Illig.

On June 30th, 1904, he was promoted to Captain.

From June, 1912, to the end of August, 1914, he was Chief of Staff in the Mediterranean Fleet, holding the rank of Commodore (Second Class) from September, 1913.

On January 1st, 1914, he was awarded the C.B.

When Sir A. Berkeley Milne hauled down his flag, Captain Phillimore remained in "Inflexible" as Captain, and commanded her in Admiral Sturdee's action off the Falkland Islands, during the bombardment of the Chanak Forts on March 18th, 1915, and during the previous operations in the Dardanelles. "Commended for service in Action."

He was principal Beach-Master at the landing in Gallipoli in 1915.

Mentioned in despatches as having performed "most valuable service," and again mentioned for Transport Services.

He was attached to the Russian Imperial Headquarters from October, 1915, to December, 1916, and holds the Order of St. Vladimir (Third Class) with Swords (awarded in November, 1915) and St. Stanislaus, First Class with swords (awarded in December, 1916).

Aide-de-Camp to the King, 1915-1916.
V VICE-ADMIRAL SIR REGINALD H. S. BACON, K.C.B., K.C.V.O., D.S.O.
VICE-ADMIRAL SIR REGINALD HUGH SPENCER BACON, K.C.B., K.C.V.O., D.S.O., was born in September, 1863, and entered the Navy in 1877. In 1883 he became a Lieutenant (Five Firsts and promotion marks). In 1887 he joined the "Camperdown" as Torpedo Lieutenant. He was awarded a silver medal by the Italian Government for bravery displayed in rescuing the crew of the Indian vessel, "Utopia," wrecked in Gibraltar Bay in March, 1891. As Commander of the "Theseus," he served in the punitive Naval expedition commanded by Rear-Admiral Rawson, C.B., and took part in the landing and capture of Benin City in February, 1897. It was in connection with this campaign that he wrote "Benin, the City of Blood." As Chief of the Intelligence Department, he was mentioned in despatches, received the General African Medal, Benin Clasp, and the D.S.O.

He was the first Inspecting Captain of Submarines, and held the appointment from March, 1901, till October, 1904, being in charge of the Submarine Service during that time. He was Naval Assistant to the First Sea Lord from October, 1904, to December, 1905; the first Captain of H.M.S. "Dreadnought," 1906-07, and Flag-Captain and Chief of the Staff in the Home Fleet in the latter year. From August, 1907, to December, 1909, Rear-Admiral Bacon was Director of Naval Ordnance and Torpedoes.

On the occasion of King Edward VII.'s Review of the Home Fleet in the Solent he received the C.V.O., and was Aide-de-Camp to the King from 1908 to 1909, during which year he became a Rear-Admiral.

Having retired in 1909 to take up the post of Managing Director of the Coventry Ordnance Works, he returned to service in January, 1915, as Officer Commanding the Siege Brigade, Royal Marines, with temporary rank of Colonel Second Commandant. He served with the Expeditionary Force in France. Later in the same year Admiral Bacon was placed in command of the Dover Patrol, becoming a Vice-Admiral on July 15th, 1915, and being made a K.C.B. on January 1st, 1916.

On the occasion of the King's visit to his Army in the Field in August, 1916, Vice-Admiral Bacon received the K.C.V.O.

He became a Grand Officer of the Legion of Honour in September, 1916, and was also created Grand Officer of the Order of Leopold by the King of the Belgians in November, 1916. In 1917 he received the Belgian Croix de Guerre.
VI VICE-ADMIRAL SIR JOHN MICHAEL de ROBECK, K.C.B.
VICE-ADMIRAL SIR JOHN MICHAEL de ROBECK, K.C.B., received his Naval education on board the "Britannia," and entered the Royal Navy as a cadet in 1875. He became a Lieutenant on September 30th, 1885, a Commander on the June 22nd, 1897, and a Captain on January 1st, 1902.

From February 15th, 1911, to December 21st of the same year he was Inspecting Captain of Boys' Training Establishments. On December 1st, 1911, he became a Rear-Admiral. From April 8th, 1912, to May 1st, 1914, he was Admiral of Patrols, being the first occupant of that post.

On the outbreak of war he commanded a Cruiser Force, and on the retirement through illness of Vice-Admiral Carden in 1915 he was appointed acting Vice-Admiral in Command of the British Eastern Mediterranean Squadron at the Dardanelles, March 17th, and directed the Naval operations carried out in March and April of that year. It was during this period that the Mediterranean Expeditionary Force was landed and firmly established on the Gallipoli Peninsula. In his despatch published in the "London Gazette," July 6th, 1915, General Sir Ian Hamilton said, "Throughout the events I have chronicled, the Royal Navy has been father and mother to the Army. Not one of us realises how much he owes to Vice-Admiral de Robeck." Later in the year Sir Ian Hamilton wrote: "The sheet-anchor on which hung the whole of these elaborate schemes was the Navy. One tiny flaw in the mutual trust and confidence animating the two services would have wrecked the whole enterprise. Experts at a distance may have guessed as much: it was self-evident to the rawest private on the spot. But with men like Vice-Admiral de Robeck, Commodore Roger Keyes, Rear-Admiral Christian, and Captain F. H. Mitchell at our backs, we soldiers were secured against any such risk, and it will be seen how perfect was the precision the sailors put into their job."

Vice-Admiral de Robeck also commanded the Naval Forces which took part in the evacuation of the Gallipoli Peninsula between November 20th, 1915, and January 9th, 1916.

He was appointed a K.C.B. on January 1st, 1916, in recognition of the services he had rendered during the war.

He is a Grand Officer of the Legion of Honour, and holds the Japanese Order of the Sacred Treasure (First Class), and the Grand Cross of the Order of the Crown of Italy.

VII VICE-ADMIRAL TREVYLYAN DACRES WILLES NAPIER, C.B., M.V.O.
VICE-ADMIRAL TREVYLYAN DACRES WILLES NAPIER, C.B., M.V.O., entered the Navy as a cadet in 1880, becoming a midshipman two years later. He served in the Egyptian War on board the "Minotaur," receiving the Egyptian Medal and Khedive's Bronze Star.

On February 14th, 1887, he was promoted Lieutenant, becoming a Commander on January 1st, 1899. He served in command of a Destroyer Flotilla, and in the Royal Yacht and attained the rank of Captain on June 30th, 1903.

Between 1904 and 1907 he was Flag-Captain to Admiral Sir John Durnford on the Cape Station, and from 1907 to 1910 commanded the Royal Naval College at Dartmouth, and commanded the "Bellerophon" from 1910 to 1912.

He was appointed Aide-de-Camp to the King on January 14th, 1913, and on July 1st of the same year was appointed Commodore in command of the Second Light Cruiser Squadron, which command he held till December 1st.

On October 24th, 1913, he became a Rear-Admiral. He has served afloat in the war from December, 1914, to the present time, and for his services received the C.B. on June 3rd, 1916. He was also mentioned in despatches for his services in the Battle of Jutland, in which he commanded the Third Light Cruiser Squadron. The Squadron had a difficult r?le to perform throughout the battle. With the First Light Cruiser Squadron it formed the screen of Sir David Beatty's Battle Cruiser Squadrons at the opening of the battle, and later in the day protected the head of the line from torpedo attack by light cruisers and destroyers. It attacked the German Battle Cruisers with torpedoes and gun fire. "Rear-Admiral Napier deserves great credit for his determined and effective attack."

He holds the Order of St. Stanislaus (First Class), with swords.
VIII REAR-ADMIRAL SIR OSMOND DE BEAUVOIR BROCK, K.C.V.O., C.B., C.M.G.
REAR-ADMIRAL SIR OSMOND DE BEAUVOIR BROCK, K.C.V.O., C.B., C.M.G., entered the Navy in the early 'eighties of the last century, becoming a Midshipman on August 15th, 1884. While serving in the "Raleigh" he was awarded the Royal Humane Society's Testimonial on Vellum for having jumped overboard at Simon's Bay to the assistance of John Duggan, stoker.

He was promoted to Lieutenant on February 14th, 1889, having passed the examination with five First Class Certificates, and later specialised in Gunnery. He was promoted to Commander on January 1st, 1900, and on January 1st, 1904, he became a Captain. In 1905 he was Flag Captain to Lord Charles Beresford, and in November, 1910, was appointed Assistant Director of Naval Mobilisation. From January 8th, 1912, to August 1st, 1912, he acted as Assistant Director, Mobilisation Division, Admiralty War Staff.

During the action in Heligoland Bight on August 28th, 1914, Captain Brock commanded the "Princess Royal," and in the action off the Dogger Bank, January 24th, 1915, he commanded the same ship. When Sir David Beatty's flagship "Lion" was damaged he transferred his flag to the destroyer "Attack," and later the "Princess Royal." For his services Captain Brock was mentioned in despatches and awarded the C.B. He commanded a Battle Cruiser Squadron in the Battle of Jutland, was again mentioned in despatches and awarded the C.M.G. It was on these Battle Cruiser Squadrons, as Sir John Jellicoe remarked, that the brunt of the fighting fell, and Sir David Beatty reported the "able support" rendered him in the battle by their commanders.

He was Aide-de-Camp to the King from October 24th, 1913, to March 5th, 1915, when he became a Rear-Admiral.
IX REAR-ADMIRAL LIONEL HALSEY, C.B., C.M.G.
REAR-ADMIRAL LIONEL HALSEY, C.B., C.M.G., Third Sea Lord, was born in 1872, and joined H.M.S. "Britannia" in 1885. As a Naval Cadet he served in the "Agincourt," Flag-ship of Rear-Admiral the Hon. Edmund R. Fremantle, then second in command of the Channel Squadron. Becoming a Sub-Lieutenant in 1891, he subsequently served as Lieutenant and Flag-Lieutenant in several different ships.

During the South African War he took part in the defence of Ladysmith, where he had charge of the 4.7 gun in Princess Victoria Battery at Cove Hill Redoubt. He was also executive Officer to Captain Lambton (now Admiral Sir Hedworth Meux) towards the end of the siege, besides taking charge of all the Naval guns. For his services in this connection he was mentioned in despatches.

On January 1st, 1901, he was specially promoted to Commander. In 1912 he became Captain of the "New Zealand," the first capital ship built at the charge of a Dominion Government. In the following year Captain Halsey received the C.M.G. From September, 1914, till he became Rear-Admiral in April, 1917, he was Aide-de-Camp to the King.

Captain Halsey was mentioned in despatches for his services in the actions at Heligoland and the Dogger Bank. He became Captain of the Fleet and Commodore, First Class, in 1915. After the Battle of Jutland, Admiral Jellicoe wrote as follows:—"My special thanks are due to Commodore Lionel Halsey, C.M.G., the Captain of the Fleet, who also assists me in the working of the Fleet at sea, and to whose good organization is largely due the rapidity with which the Fleet was fuelled and replenished with ammunition on return to its bases. He was of much assistance to me during the action."

Commodore Halsey received the C.B. on June 3rd, 1916, becoming Fourth Sea Lord in December of the same year, and Third Sea Lord in May, 1917. He is a Commander of the Legion of Honour, and holds the Russian Order of St. Vladimir (Third Class).
X VICE-ADMIRAL SIR WILLIAM C. PAKENHAM, K.C.B., K.C.V.O.
VICE-ADMIRAL SIR WILLIAM CHRISTOPHER PAKENHAM, K.C.B., K.C.V.O., was born in July, 1861, the second son of the late Rear-Admiral the Hon. Thomas Alexander Pakenham. In his early days in the Royal Navy he made a reputation as a swimmer, assisting in the rescue of a seaman who fell overboard at Larnaca, Cyprus, and some years later endeavouring to save a man who fell from the foreyard of the "Calypso" during drill at Kiel. He became a Captain on June 30th, 1903, and from April, 1904, to May, 1906, he was Naval Attaché at Tokyo.

He became a C.B. in July, 1905, and received the Order of the Rising Sun (Second Class) from H.I.M. the Emperor of Japan in 1906. In July, 1907, when in command of the "Antrim," escorting King Edward to Ireland, he was awarded the M.V.O.

From December, 1911, to December, 1913, he was a Lord Commissioner of the Admiralty. In June, 1913, he became Rear-Admiral, and in December was appointed to command the Third Cruiser Squadron.

Rear-Admiral Pakenham was present at the Battle of Jutland and received a K.C.B. on May 31st, 1916, for his services on that occasion.

When Admiral Sir David Beatty was given the command of the Grand Fleet in succession to Admiral Sir John Jellicoe in November, 1916, Admiral Pakenham was selected to assume the command of the Battle Cruiser Force, and was promoted to Acting Vice-Admiral on June 19th, 1917.

On the occasion of the visit of H.M. King George to the Fleet in July, 1917, Admiral Pakenham was made a K.C.V.O.

Vice-Admiral Pakenham has received the Russian Order of St. Stanislaus (Second Class), and also an Imperial Gift, graciously conferred by H.I.M. the Emperor of Japan.
XI COMMODORE GODFREY M. PAINE, C.B., M.V.O.
COMMODORE GODFREY MARSHALL PAINE, C.B., M.V.O., was born in 1871 and entered the Navy in 1885, becoming a Lieutenant on August 23rd, 1893, after service in the Royal Yacht.

On December 31st, 1903, he became a Commander, and was in the "Renown" during the voyage of the Prince and Princess of Wales to India, October, 1905, to May, 1906. On June 30th, 1907, he became a Captain. From June, 1909, to June, 1911, he commanded the Third Torpedo Boat Destroyer Flotilla.

From August, 1911, to May, 1912, he was Captain of H.M.S. "Act?on," the Torpedo School Ship at Sheerness, then the Headquarters of the infant Naval Air Service. He gained the pilot's certificate of the Royal Aero Club in May, 1912, flying a Short biplane, and before the end of the month became first Commandant of the Central Flying School, Salisbury Plain.

This School, inaugurated in 1912, was open to both Naval and Military aviators, and was, in consequence, an institution demanding special qualifications from the Officer in command. The new experiment proved a complete success under Captain Paine.

In 1915 Captain Paine became a Commodore (First Class), and in 1917 he was appointed Director of Naval Air Service and Fifth Sea Lord. The skill, versatility and usefulness of the Naval Air Service have rivalled those of the military airmen. The naval airmen have had to discover their true r?le and make their traditions. When their record can be known the success of Commodore Paine will be fully appreciated. He received a C.B. on January 1st, 1914. He is also a Commander of the Legion of Honour.
XII COMMODORE SIR REGINALD YORKE TYRWHITT, K.C.B., D.S.O.
COMMODORE (First Class) SIR REGINALD YORKE TYRWHITT, K.C.B., D.S.O., was born in 1870 and entered the "Britannia" as a cadet in 1885, becoming a Lieutenant on August 25th, 1892.

As Lieutenant of H.M.S. "Cleopatra" in 1894 he was one of a landing party, composed of seamen and marines, under Lieutenant Colmore, who went to protect the inhabitants of Bluefields, Nicaragua. This expedition saved the lives of the inhabitants, who expressed their gratitude in a letter of thanks.

Having become a Captain on June 30th, 1908, Captain Tyrwhitt commanded the Second Flotilla from August, 1912, to November, 1913, when he was appointed Captain of the First Fleet Flotillas and was advanced to the rank of Commodore (Second Class), in April, 1914.

At the outbreak of war, Commodore Tyrwhitt was in command of the Harwich Force consisting of the First, Second, and Tenth Flotillas. He took part in the actions in the Heligoland Bight and off the Dogger Bank and in many minor actions in 1914-17.

For his services in the action in the Heligoland Bight he was awarded the C.B. The "London Gazette" stated that his attack was delivered with great skill and gallantry. Commodore Tyrwhitt also received the thanks of the Admiralty for the manner in which he lead his forces.

In December, 1914, he was advanced to Commodore (First Class). In June, 1916, he received the D.S.O., and in April, 1917, he was appointed A.D.C. to the King, and for services rendered during the War received the K.C.B. on July 25th, 1917.

Commodore Tyrwhitt is a Commander of the Legion of Honour and Chevalier of the Military Order of Savoy.

The End
