Chapter 1 Hairs
　　Everybody in our family has different hair. My Papa's hair is like a broom, all up in the air. And me, my hair is lazy. It never obeys barrettes or bands. Carlos' hair is thick and straight. He doesn't need to comb it. Nenny's hair is slippery——slides out of your hand. And Kiki, who is the youngest, has hair like fur.
　　But my mother's hair, my mother's hair, like little rosettes, like little candy circles all curly and pretty because she pinned it in pincurls all day, sweet to put your nose into when she is holding you, holding you and you feel safe, is the warm smell of bread before you bake it, is the smell when she makes room for you on her side of the bed still warm with her skin, and you sleep near her, the rain outside falling and Papa snoring. The snoring, the rain, and Mama's hair that smells like bread.

Chapter 2 Darius & The Clouds
　　You can never have too much sky. You can fall asleep and wake up drunk on sky, and sky can keep you safe when you are sad. Here there is too much sadness and not enough sky. Butterflies too are few and so are flowers and most things that are beautiful. Still, we take what we can get and make the best of it.
　　Darius, who doesn't like school, who is sometimes stupid and mostly a fool, said something wise today, though most days he says nothing. Darius, who chases girls with firecrackers or a stick that touched a rat and thinks he's tough, today pointed up because the world was full of clouds, the kind like pillows.
　　You all see that cloud, that fat one there? Darius said, See that? Where? That one next to the one that look like popcorn. That one there. See that. That's God, Darius said.God? somebody little asked. God, he said, and made it simple.

Chapter 3 Four Skinny Trees
　　They are the only ones who understand me. I am the only one who understands them. Four skinny trees with skinny necks and pointy elbows like mine. Four who do not belong here but are here. Four raggedy excuses planted by the city. From our room we can hear them, but Nenny just sleeps and doesn't appreciate these things.
　　Their strength is secret. They send ferocious roots beneath the ground. They grow up and they grow down and grab the earth between their hairy toes and bite the sky with violent teeth and never quit their anger. This is how they keep. Let one forget his reason for being, they'd all droop like tulips in a glass, each with their arms around the other. Keep, keep, keep, trees say when I sleep. They teach.
　　When I am too sad and too skinny to keep keeping, when I am a tiny thing against so many bricks, then it is I look at trees. When there is nothing left to look at on this street. Four who grew despite concrete. Four who reach and do not forget to reach. Four whose only reason is to be and be.

Chapter 4 Cathy Queen of Cats
　　Cathy who is queen of cats has cats and cats and cats. Baby cats, big cats, skinny cats, sick cats. Cats asleep like little donuts. Cats on top of the refrigerator. Cats taking a walk on the dinner table. Her house is like cat heaven.
　　You want a friend, she says. Okay, I'll be your friend. But only till next Tuesday. That's when we move away. Got to. Then as if she forgot I just moved in, she says the neighborhood is getting bad.
　　Cathy's father will have to fly to France one day and find her great great distant grand cousin on her father's side and inherit the family house. How do I know this is so? She told me so. In the meantime they'll just have to move a little farther north from Mango Street, a little farther away every time people like us keep moving in.

Chapter 5 A house of my own
　　Not a flat. Not an apartment in back. Not a man's house. Not a daddy's. A house all my own. With my porch and my pillow, my pretty purple petunias. My books and my stories. My two shoes waiting beside the bed. Nobody to shake a stick at. Nobody's garbage to pick up after.　　Only a house quiet as snow, a space for myself to go, clean as paper before the poem.

Chapter 7 The House on Mango Street 1
　　We didn't always live on Mango Street. Before that we lived on Loomis on the third floor, and before that we lived on Keeler. Before Keeler it was Paulina, and before that I can't remember. But what I remember most is moving a lot. Each time it seemed there'd be one more of us. By the time we got to Mango Street we were six —— Mama, Papa, Carlos, Kiki, my sister Nenny and me.　　The house on Mango Street is ours, and we don't have to pay rent to anybody, or share the yard with the people down stairs, or be careful not to make too much noise, and there isn't a landlord banging on the ceiling with a broom. But even so, it's not the house we'd thought we'd get.　　We had to leave the flat on Loomis quick. The water pipes broke and the landlord wouldn't fix them because the house was too old. We had to leave fast. We were using the washroom next door and carrying water over in empty milk gallons. That's why Mama and Papa looked for a house, and that's why we moved into the house on Mango Street, far away, on the other side of town.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 8 The House on Mango Street 2
　　They always told us that one day we would move into a house, a real that would be ours for always so we wouldn't have to move each year. And our house would have running water and pipes that worked. And inside it would have real stairs, not hallway stairs, but stairs inside like the house on T.V.And we'd have a basement and at least three washrooms so when we took a bath we wouldn't have to tell everybody. Our house would be white with trees around it, a great big yard and grass growing without a fence. This was the house Papa talked about when he held a lottery ticket and this was the house mama dreamed up in the stories she told us before we went to bed.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 9 The House on Mango Street 3
　　But the house on Mango Street is not the way they told it at all. It's small and red with tight steps in front and windows so small you'd think they were holding their breath. Bricks are crumbling in places, and the front door is so swollen you have to push hard to get in. There is no front yard, only four little elms the city planted by the curb. Our back is a small garage for the car we don't own yet and a small yard that looks smaller between the two buildings on either side. There are stairs in our house, but they're ordinary hallway stairs, and the house has only one washroom. Everybody has to share a bedroom—Mama and Papa, Carlos and Kiki, me and Nenny.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 10 The House on Mango Street 4
　　Once when we were living on Loomis, a nun from my school passed by and saw me playing out front. The Laundromat downstairs had been boarded up because it had been robbed two days before and the owner had painted on the wood YES WE'RE OPEN so as not lose business.
　　Where do you live? She asked.　　　There, I said pointing up to the third floor.　　　You live there?
　　There. I had to look to where she pointed –—— the third floor, the paint peeling, wooden bars Papa had nailed on the windows so we wouldn't fall out. You live there? The way she said it made me feel like nothing. There. I lived there. I nodded.
　　I knew then I had to have to house. A real house. One I could point to .but this isn't it. The house on Mango Street isn't it. For the time being, Mama says. Temporary, says Papa. But I know how those things go.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 11 The boys and girls 1
　　The boys and the girls live in separate world. The boys in their universe and we in ours. My brothers for example. They've got plenty to say to me and Nenny inside the house. But outside they can't be seen talking to girls. Carlos and Kiki are each other's best friend…not ours.
　　Nenny is too young to be my friend. She's just my sister and that was not my fault. You don't pick your sisters, you just get them and sometimes they come like Nenny.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 12 The boys and girls 2
　　She can't play with those Vargas kids or she'll turn our just like them. And since she comes right after me, she is my responsibility.
　　Someday I will have a best friend all my own. One I can tell my secrets to. One who will understand my jokes without my having to explain them. Until then I am a red balloon, a balloon tied to an anchor.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 13 My name 1
　　In English my name means hope. In Spanish it means too many letters. It means sadness, it means waiting. It is like the number nine. A muddy color. It is the Mexican records my father plays on Sunday mornings when he is shaving, songs like sobbing.
　　It was my great-grandmother's name and now it is mine. She was a horse woman too, born like me in the Chinese year of horse—which is supposed to be bad luck if you're born female—but I think this is a Chinese lie because the Chinese, like the Mexicans, don't like their women strong.
　　My great-grandmother. I would've liked to have known her, a wild horse of a woman, so wild she wouldn't marry. Until my great-grandfather threw a sack over her head and carried her off. Just that, as if she were a fancy chandelier. That's the way he did it.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 14 My name 2
　　And the story goes she never forgave him. She looked out the window her whole life, the way so many women sit their sadness on an elbow. I wonder if she made the best with what she got or was she dory because she couldn`t be all the things she wanted to be. Esperanza. I have inherited her name, but I don't want to inherit her place by the window.
　　At school they say my name funny as if the syllables were made out of tin and hurt the roof of your mouth. But in Spanish my name is made out of a softer something, like silver, not quite as thick as sister`s name—Magdalena—— which is uglier than mine. Magdalena who at least can come home and become Nenny. But I am always Esperanza.
　　I would like to baptize myself under a new name, a name more like the real me, the one nobody see. Esperanza as Lasiandra or Maritza or Zeze the X.Yes. something like Zeze the X will do.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 15 Cathy Queen of Cats 1
　　She says, I am the great great grand cousin of the queen of France. She lives upstairs, over there, next door to Joe the baby-grabber. Keep away from him, she says. He is full of danger. Benny and Blanca own the corner store. They're okay except don't lean on the candy counter. Two girls raggedy as rats live across the street. You don't want to know them. Edna is the lady who owns the building next to you. She used to own a building big as a whale, but her brother sold it. Their mother said no, no, don't ever sell it. I won't. And then she closed her eyes and he sold it. Alicia is stuck-up ever since she went to college. She used to like me but now she doesn't.
　　Cathy who is queen of cats has cats and cats and cats. Baby cats, big cats, skinny cats, sick cats. Cats asleep like little donuts. Cats on top of the refrigerator. Cats taking a walk on the dinner table. Her house is like cat heaven.

Chapter 16 Cathy Queen of Cats 2
　　You want a friend, she says. Okay, I'll be your friend. But only till next Tuesday. That's when we move away. Got to. Then as if she forgot I just moved in, she says the neighborhood is getting bad.
　　Cathy's father will have to fly to France one day and find her great great distant grand cousin on her father's side and inherit the family house. How do I know this is so? She told me so. In the meantime they'll just have to move a little farther north from Mango Street, a little farther away every time people like us keep moving in.
　　　　　　　　　　　　
  
Chapter 17 Our good days 1
　　If you give me five dollars I will be your friend forever. That's what the little one tells me.
　　Five dollars is cheap since I don't have any friends except Cathy who is only my friend till Tuesday.
　　Five dollars, five dollars.
　　She is trying to get some body to chip in so they can buy a bicycle form this kid named Tito. They already have ten dollars and all they need is five more.
　　Don't talk to them, says Cathy. Can't you see they smell like a broom.
　　But I like them. Their clothes are crooked and old. They are wearing shiny Sunday shoes without socks. It makes their bald ankles all red, but I like them. Especially the big one who laughs with all her teeth. I like her even though she lets the little one do all the talking.
　　Five dollars, the little one says, only five.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 18 Our good days 2
　　Cathy is tugging my arm and I know whatever I do next will make her mad forever.
　　Wait a minute, I say, and run inside to get the five dollars I have three dollars saved and I take two of Nenny's. She's not home, but I'm sure she'll be glad when she finds out we own a bike. When I get back, Cathy is gone like I knew she would be , but I don't care. I have two new friends and a bike too.
　　My name is Lucy, the big one says. This here is Rachel my sister.
　　I'm her sister, says Rachel. Who are you?
　　And I wish my name was Cassandra or Alexis or Maritza—anything but Esperanza—but when I tell them my name they don't laugh.

Chapter 19 Our good days 3
　　We come from Texas, Lucy says and grins. Her was born here, but me I'm Texas.
　　You mean she, I says.
　　No, I'm from Texas, and doesn't get it.
　　This bike is three ways ours, says Rachel who is thinking ahead already. Mine today, Lucy's tomorrow and yours day after.
　　But everybody wants to ride it today because the bike is new, so we decide to take turns after tomorrow. Today is belongs to all of us.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 20 Our good days 4
　　But everybody wants to ride it today because the bike is new, so we decide to take turns after tomorrow. Today it belongs to all of us.
　　I don't tell them about Nenny just yet. It's too complicated. Especially since Rachel almost put out Lucy's eye about who was going to get to ride it first. But finally we agree to ride it together. Why not?
　　Because Lucy has long legs she pedals. I sit on the back seat and Rachel is skinny enough to get up on the handlebars which makes the bike all wobble as if the wheels are spaghetti, but after a bit you get used to it.

Chapter 21 Our good days 5
　　We ride fast and faster. Past my house, sad and red and crumbly in places, past Mr. Benny's grocery on the corner, and down the avenue which is dangerous. Laundoromat, junk store, drugstore, windows and cars and more cars , and around the block back to Mango.
　　People on the bus wave. A very fat lady crossing the street says. You sure got quite a load there.
　　Rachel shouts. You got quite a load there too. She is very sassy.
　　Down, down Mango Street we go. Rachel, Lucy, me. Our new bicycle. Laughing the crooked ride back.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 22 Laughter
　　Nenny and I don't look like sisters…not right away. Not the way you can tell with Rachel and Lucy who have the same fat popsicle lips everybody else in their family. But me and Nenny, we are more alike than you would know. Our laughter for example. Not the shy ice cream bells' giggle of Rachel and Lucy's' family, but all of a sudden and surprise like a pile of dishes breaking. And other things I can't explain.
　　One day we were passing a house that looked, in my mind, like house I had seen in Mexico. I don't know why. There was nothing about the house that looked exactly like the house I remembered. I'm not even sure why I thought it, but it seemed to feel right.
　　Look at the house, I said, it looks like Mexico.
　　Rachel and Lucy look at me like I'm crazy, but before they can let out a laugh, Nenny says: Yes, that's Mexico all right. That's what I was thinking exactly.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 24 Meme Ortiz
　　Around the back is a yard, mostly dirt,and a greasy bunch of boards that used to be a garage. but what you families of squirrels in the higher branches. All around, the nighborhood of roofs, black-tarred and A-framed, and in their gutters, the balls that never came back down to earth. Down at the base of the tree, the dog with two names barks into the empty air, and there at the end of the block, looking smaller still, our house with its feet tucked under like a cat.
　　This is the tree we chose for the First Annual Tarzan Jumping Contest. Meme won. And borke both arms.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 25 Louie,His Cousin&His Other Cousin
　　Louie's girl cousin is older than us. She lives with Louie's family because her own family is in Puerto Rico. Her name is Marin or Maris or something like that, and she wears dark nylons all the time and lots of makeup she gets free from selling Avon. She can't come out _gotta baby-sit with Louie's sisters- but she stands in the doorway a lot, all the time singing, clicking her fingers, the same song:
　　Apples, peaches, pumpkin pah-ay
　　You're in love and so am ah-ay
　　Louie's has another cousin. We only saw him once, but it was important. We were playing volleyball in the alley when he drove up in this great big yellow Cadillac whitewalls and a yellow scarf tied around the mirror. Louie's cousin has his arm out the window. He honked a couple of times and a lot of faces looked out from Louie's back window and then a lot of people came out—Louie, Marin and all the little sisters.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 26 Marin
　　We never see Marin until her aunt comes home from work, and even then she can only stay out in front. She is there every night with the radio. When the light in her aunt's room goes out, Marin lights a cigarette and it doesn't matter if it's cold out or if the radio doesn't work or if we've got nothing to say to each other. What matters, Marin says, is for the boys to see us and for us to see them. And since Marin's skirts are shorter and since her eyes are pretty, and since Marin is already older than us in many ways, the boys who do pass by say stupid things like I am in love with those two green apples you call eyes, give them to me why don't you. And Marin just looks at them without even blinking and is no afraid.
　　Marin, under the streetlight, dancing by herself, is singing the same song somewhere. I know. Is waiting for a car to stop, a star to fall, someone to change her life.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 27 There was an old woman she had so many
　　The kids bend trees and bounce between cars and dangle upside down from knees and almost break like fancy museum vases you can't replace. They think it's funny. They are without respect for all things living, including themselves.
　　But after a wile you get tired of being worried about kids who aren't even yours. One day they are playing chicken on Mr. Benny's roof . Mr. Benny says, Hey ain't you kids know better than to be swinging up there? Come down, you come down right now, and then they just spit.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 28 Alicia who sees mice
　　Alicia, whose mama died, is sorry there is no one older to rise and make the lunchbox tortillas. Alicia, who inherited her mama's rolling pin and sleepiness, is young and smart and studies for the first time at the university. Two trains and a bus, because she doesn't want to spend her whole life in factory or behind a rolling pin. Is a good girl, my friend, studies all night and sees the mice, the ones her father says do not exist. Is afraid of nothing except four-legged fur. And fathers.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

　　*据作者自述，她的父亲和六个兄弟都想限制她，企望她成为一个传统的家庭妇女。她说有时候感觉自己好像有7个父亲。因此，这里的“父亲们”应该也是指家中的男性。
Chapter 29 And some more……
　　The Eskimos got thirty different names for snow, I say. I read it in a book.
　　I got a cousin, Rachel says. She got three different names.
　　There ain't thirty different kinds of snow, Lucy says. There are two kinds. The clean kind and the dirty kind, clean and dirty. Only two.
　　There are a million zillion kinds, says Nenny. No two exactly alike. Only how do you remember which one is which?
　　She got three last names and, let me see, two first names. One in English and one in Spanish…
　　And clouds got at least ten different names. I say.
　　Names for clouds? Nenny asks. Names just like you and me?

Chapter 30 The Family of Little Feet
　　There was a family.All were little.Their arms were little,and their hands were little,and their height was not tall,and their feet very small.
　　The grandpa slept on the living room couch and snored through his teeth.His feet were fat and doughy like thick tamales,and these he powdered and stuffed into white socks and brown leather shoes.
　　The grandma's feet were lovely as pink pearls and dressed in velvety high heels that made her walk with a wobble,but she wore them anyway because they were pretty.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 31 And some more……
　　The special kids, the ones who wear keys around their necks, get to eat in the canteen. The canteen! Even the name sounds important. And these kids at lunch time go there because their mothers aren't home or home is too far away to get to.
　　My home isn't far but it's not close either, and somehow I got it in my head one day to ask my mother to make me a sandwich and write a note to the principal so I could eat in the canteen too.
　　Oh no, she says pointing the butter knife at me as if I'm starting trouble, no sir. Next thing you know everybody will be wanting a bag lunch—I'll be up all night cutting bread into little triangles, this one with mayonnaise, this one with mustard, no pickles on mine, but mustard on one side please. You kids just like to invent more work for me.'
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 32 Chanclas
　　It`s me——Mama,Mama said.I open up and she`s there with bags and big boxes,the new clothes and ,yes,she`s got the socks and a new slip with a little rose on it and a pink-and-white striped dress.What about the shoes? I forgot.Too late now.I`m tired.Whew!
　　Six-thirty already and my little cousin`s baptism is over.All day waiting,the door locked,don`t open up for nobody,and I don`t till Mama gets back and buys everything except the shoes.
　　Now Uncle Nacho is coming in his car,and we have to hurry to get to Precious Blood Church quick because that`s where the baptism party is,in the basement rented for today for dancing and tamales and everyone`s kids running all over the place.

Chapter 33 And some more……
　　I like coffee, I like tea.
　　I like the boys and the boys like me.
　　Yes, no, maybe so. Yes, no, maybe so…
　　One day you wake up and they are there. Ready and waiting like a new Buick with the keys in the ignition. Ready to take you where?
　　They're good for holding a baby when you're cooking, Rachel says, turning the jump rope a little quicker. She has no imagination.
　　You need them to dance, says Lucy.
　　If you don't get them you may turn into a man. Nenny says this and she believes it. She is this way because of her age.

Chapter 34 The First Job
　　In my job I had to wear white gloves.I was supposed to match negatives with their prints,just look at the picture and look for the same one on the negative strip, put it in the envelope, and do the next one.That`s all. I didn`t know where these envelopes were coming from or where they were going.I just did what I was told.
　　It was real easy, and Iguess I wouldn`t have minded it except that you got tired after a while and I didn`t know if I could sit down or not,and then I started sitting down only when the two ladies next to me did. After a while they started to laugh and came up to me and said I could sit when I wanted to ,and I said I knew.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 35 Papa who wakes up tired in the dark
　　You abuelito（1） is dead, Papa says early one morning in my room. Esta muerto（2） , and then as if he just heard the news himself, crumples like a coat and cries, my brave Papa cries. I have never seen my Papa cry and don't know what to do.
　　I know he will have to go away, that he will take a plane to Mexico, all the uncles and aunts will be there, and they will have a black-and-white photo taken in front of the tomb with flowers shaped like spears in a white vase because this is how they send the dead away in that country.
　　And I think if my own Papa died what would I do. I hold my Papa in my arms. I hold and hold and hold him.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 36 Born Bad
　　Most likely I will go to hell and most likely I deserve to be there.My brother says I was born on an evil day and pray for me.Lucy and Rachel pray too.For ourselves and for each other……because of what we did to Aunt Lupe.
　　Her name was Guadalupe and she was pretty like my mother.Dark.Good to look at.In her Joan Crawford dress and swimmer`s legs.Aunt Lupe of the photographs.
　　But I knew her sick fromthe disease that would not go,her legs bunched under the yellow sheets,the bones gone limp as worms.The yellow pillow,the yellow smell,the bottles and spoonsl.Her head thrown back like a thirsty lady.My aunt,the swimmer.
　　Hard to imagine her legs once strong, the bones hard and parting water, clean sharp strokes, not bent and wrinkled like a baby, not drowning under the sticky yellow light. Second-floor rear apartment. The naked light bulb. The high ceilings. The light bulb always burning.
　　I don't know who decides who deserves to go bad. There was no evil in her birth. No wicked curse. One day I believe she was swimming, and the next day she was sick. It might have been the day that gray photograph was taken. It might have been the day she was holding cousin Totchy and baby Frank. It might have been the moment she pointed to the camera for the kids to look and they
　　wouldn't.
　　Maybe the sky didn't look the day she fell down. Maybe God was busy. It could be true she didn't dive right one day and hurt her spine. Or maybe the story that she fell very hard from a high step stool, like Totchy said, is true.
　　But I think diseases have no eyes. They pick with a dizzy finger anyone, just anyone. Like my aunt who happened to be walking down the street one day in her Joan Crawford dress, in her funny felt hat with the black feather, cousin Totchy in one hand, baby Frank in the other.
　　Sometimes you get used to the sick and sometimes the sickness, if it is there too long, gets to seem normal. This is how it was with her, and maybe this is why we chose her.
　　It was a game, that's all. It was the game we played every afternoon ever since that day one of us invented it. I can't remember who. I think it was me. You had to pick somebody.
　　You had to think of someone everybody knew. Someone you could imitate and everyone else would have to guess who it was. It started out with famous people: Wonder Woman, the Beatles, Marilyn Monroe... But then somebody thought it'd be better if we changed the game a little, if we pretended we were Mr. Benny, or his wife Blanca, or Ruthie, or anybody we knew.
　　I don't know why we picked her. Maybe we were bored that day. Maybe we got tired. We liked my aunt. She listened to our stories. She always asked us to come back. Lucy, me, Rachel. I hated to go there alone. The six blocks to the dark apartment, second-floor rear building where sunlight never came, and what did it matter? My aunt was blind by then. She never saw the dirty dishes in the sink. She couldn't see the ceilings dusty with flies, the ugly maroon walls, the bottles and sticky spoons. I can't forget the smell. Like sticky capsules filled with jelly. My aunt, a little oyster, a little piece of meat on an open shell for us to look at. Hello, hello. As if she had fallen into a well.
　　I took my library books to her house. I read her stories. I liked the book The Water Babies. She liked it too. I never knew how sick she was until that day I tried to show her one of the pictures in the book, a beautiful color picture of the water babies swimming in the sea. I held the book up to her face. I can't see it, she said, I'm blind. And then I was ashamed.
　　She listened to every book, every poem I read her. one day I read her one of my own. I came very close. I whispered it into the pillow:
　I want to be
　　like the waves on the sea,
　　like the clouds in the wind,
 　　but I'm me.
　　One day I'll jump
　　out of my skin.
　　I'll shake the sky
　　like a hundred violins.
　　That's nice. That's very good, she said in her tired voice. You just remember to keep writing, Esperanza. You must keep writing. It will keep you free, and I said yes, but at that time I didn't know what she meant.
　　The day we played the game, we didn't know she was going to die. We pretended with our heads thrown back, our arms limp and useless, dangling like the dead. We laughed the way she did. We talked the way she talked, the way blind people talk without moving their head. We imitated the way you had to lift her head a little so she could drink water, she sucked it up slow out of a green tin cup. The water was warm and tasted like metal. Lucy laughed. Rachel too. We took turns being her. We screamed in the weak voice of a parrot for Totchy to come and wash those dishes. It was easy.
　　We didn't know. She had been dying such a long time, we forgot. Maybe she was ashamed. Maybe she was embarrassed it took so many years. The kids who wanted to be kids instead of washing dishes and ironing their papa's shirts, and the husband who wanted a wife again.
　　And then she died, my aunt who listened to my poems.
　　And then we began to dream the dreams.　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 37 Elenita, cards, plam, water
　　She makes the sign of the cross over the water three times and then begins to cut the cards.
　　They're not like ordinary playing cards, these cards. They're strange, with blond men on horses and crazy baseball bats with thorns. Golden goblets, sad-looking women dressed in old-fashioned dresses, and roses that cry.
　　There is a good Bugs Bunny cartoon on T.V. I know, I saw it before and recognize the music and wish I could go sit on the plastic couch with Ernie and the baby, but now my fortune begins. My whole life on that kitchen table : past, present, future. Then she takes my hand and looks into my plam. Closes it. Closes her eyes too.
　　Do you feel it, feel it cold?
　　Yes , I lie, but only a little.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 39 The Earl of Tennessee
　　Earl lives next door in Edna`s basement,behind the flower boxes Edna paints green each year,behind the dusty geraniums.We used to sit on the flower boxes until the day Tito saw a cockroach with a spot of green paint on its head.Now we sit on the steps that swing around the basement apatrment where Earl lives.
　　Earl works nights.His blinds are always closed during the day. Sometimes he comes out and tells us to keep quiet.The little wooden door that has wedged shut the dark for so long opens with a sigh and lets out a breath of mold and dampness,like books that have been left out in the rain.This is the only time we see Earl except for when he comes and goes to work. He has weo little black dogs that go everywhere with him. They don`t walk like ordinary dogs,but leap and somersault like an apostrophe and comma.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 40 Sire
　　I don't remember when I first noticed him looking at me—Sire. But I knew he was looking. Every time. All the time I walked past his house. Him and his friends sitting on their bikes in front of the house, pitching pennies. They didn't scare me. They did, but I wouldn't let them know. I don't cross the street like other girls. Straight ahead, straight eyes. I walked past. I knew he was looking. I had to prove to me I wasn't scared of nobody's eyes, not even his. I had to look back hard, just once, like he was glass. And I did. I did once. But I looked too long when he rode his bike past me. I looked because I wanted to be brave, straight into he dusty cat fur of his eyes and the bike stopped and he bumped into a parked car, bumped, and I walked fast. It made your blood freeze to have somebody look at you like that. Somebody looked at me. Somebody looked. But his kind, his ways. He is a punk, Papa says, and Mama says not to talk to him.

Chapter 42 Rafaela Who Drinks Coconut @ Papaya Juice on Tuesdays
　　On Tuesdays Rafaela`s husband comes home late because that`s the night he plays dominoes.And then Rafaela,who is still young but getting old from leaning out the window so much,gets locked indoors because her husband is afraid Rafaela will run away since she is too beautiful to look at.
　　Fafaela leans out the window and leans on her elbow and dreams her hair is like Rapunzel`s.On the corner there is music from the bar,and Rafaela wishes she could go there and dance before she gets old.
　　A long time passes and we forget she is up there watching until she says:Kids,If I give you a dollar wiill you go to the store and buy me something? She throws a crumpled dollar down and always asks for coconut or sometimes papaya juice, and we send it up to her in a paper shopping bag she lets down with clothesline.
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 43 Sally
　　Sally is a girl with eyes like Egypt and nylons the color of smoke.The boys at school think she`s beautiful because her hair is shiny black like raven feathers and when she laughs,she flicks her hair back like a satin shawl over her shoulders and laughs.
　　Her father says to be this beautiful is trouble.They are very strict in his religion.They are not supposed to dance.He remembers his sisters and is sad.Then she can`t go out.Sally I mean.
　　Sally,who taught you to paint your eyes like Cleopatra 【1】?And if I roll the little brush with my tongue and chew it to a point and dip it in the muddy cake,the one in the little red box,will you teach me?
　　　　　　　　　　　　

Chapter 44 Minerva writes poems
　　Minerva is only a little bit older than me but already she has two kids and a husband who left. Her mother raised her kids alone and it looks like her daughters will go that way too. Minerva cries because her luck is unlucky. Every night and every day. And prays. But when the kids are asleep after she's fed them their pancake dinner, she writes poems on little pieces of paper that she folds over and over and holds in her hands a long time, little pieces of paper that smell like a dime.
　　She lets me read her poems. I let her read mine. She is always sad like a house on fire——always something wrong. She has many troubles, but the big one is her husband who left and keeps leaving.
　　　　　　　　　　　　
Chapter 45 Bums in the Attic
　　I want a house on a hill like the ones with the gardens where Papa works. We go on Sundays,Papa`s day off. I used to go.I don`t anymore. You don`t like to go out with us,Papa says. Getting too old? Getting too stuck-up,says Nenny. I don`t tell them I am ashamed——all of us staring out the window like the hungry. I am tired of looking at what we can`t have. When we win the lottery……Mama begins,and the I stop listening.
　　People who live on hills sleep so close to the stars the forget those of us who live too much on earth. They don`t look down at all except to be content to live on hills. They have nothing to do with last week`s garbage or fear of rats. Night comes. Nothing wakes them but the wind.
　　One day I`ll own my own house,but I won`t forget who I am or where I came from. Passing bums will ask,Can I come in? I`ll offer them the attic,ask them to stay,because I know how it is to be without a house.
　　Some days after dinner, guests and I will sit in front of a fire. Floorboards will squeak upstairs. The attic grumble.
　　Rats? they'll ask.
　　Bums, I'll say, and I'll be happy.　　　　　　　　　　　　
Chapter 46 A Smart Cookie
　　I could`ve been somebody,you know？ My mother says and sighs. She has lived in this city her whole life. She can speak two languages. She can sing an opera. She knows how to fix a T.V. But she doesn`t know which subway train to take to get downtown. I hold her hand very tight while we wait for the right train to arrive.
　　She used to draw when she had time. Now she draws with a needle and thread, little knotted rosebuds,tulips made of silk thread. Someday she would like to go to the ballet. Someday she would like to see a play. She borrows opera reconds from the public library and sings with velvety lungs powerful as morning glories.

Chapter 47 What sally said
　　Sally was going to get permission to stay with us a little and one Thursday she came finally with a sack full of clothes and a paper bag of sweetbread her mama sent. And would 've stayed too except when the dark came her father, whose eyes were little from crying, knocked on the door and said please come back, this is the last time. And she said Daddy and went home.
　　Then we didn't need to worry. Until one day Sally's father catches her talking to a boy and the next day she doesn't come to school. And the next. Until the way Sally tells it, he just went crazy, he just forget he was her father between the buckle and the belt.

Chapter 48 Mango Says Goodbye Sometimes
　　I like to tell stories. I tell them inside my head. I tell them after the mailman says, Here's your mail. Here's your mail he said.
　　I make a story for my life, for each step my brown shoe takes. I say, "And so she trudged up the wooden stairs, her sad brown shoes taking her to the house she never liked."
　　I like to tell stories. I am going to tell you a story about a girl who didn't want to belong.
　　We didn't always live on Mango Street. Before that we lived on Loomis on the third floor, and before that we lived on Keeler. Before Keeler it was Paulina, but what I remember most is Mango Street, sad red house, the house I belong but do not belong to.
　　I put it down on paper and then the ghost does not ache so much. I write it down and Mango says goodbye sometimes. She does not hold me with both arms. She sets me free.
　　One day I will pack my bags of books and paper. One day I will say goodbye to Mango. I am too strong for her to keep me here forever. One day I will go away.
　　Friends and neighbors will say, What happened to that Esperanza? Where did she go with all those books and paper? Why did she march so far away?
　　They will not know I have gone away to come back. For the ones I left behind. For the ones who cannot out.

